Meghan McCain responds to White House comment about Sen. John McCain ‘dying’: ‘Nobody’s going to remember you’
A White House aide who reportedly dismissed Sen. John McCain‘s objections to CIA director nominee Gina Haspel on the grounds that the politician — who has been battling brain cancer — is “dying anyway” has sparked major outcry from people of all political affiliations.

Kelly Sadler’s comment has been denounced as insensitive by many, prompting the Trump White House to issue a statement praising the 81-year-old former POW’s “service to our nation” and sending prayers to his family.

WH released statement from an “official” to respond to staffer’s McCain cancer comment: “We respect Senator McCain's service to our nation, and he and his family are in our prayers during this difficult time." (*Nobody had the guts to put their name on it) https://t.co/OhgC0btsT1 — Jim Acosta (@Acosta) May 10, 2018





Those closest to the Arizona senator are also speaking out. On Thursday his wife, Cindy McCain, took Sadler to task in a short but effective tweet.

@kellysadler45 May I remind you my husband has a family, 7 children and 5 grandchildren. — Cindy McCain (@cindymccain) May 10, 2018





His daughter Meghan McCain, meanwhile, used her time on The View to share her response Friday morning. The talk show host said that she and her family were focusing more on the love and positive energy surrounding them than “anything negative at all.” She added that Sen. McCain, who announced his glioblastoma diagnosis last year, is “actually doing really well right now,” which she attributed to “the power of prayer.”

.@MeghanMcCain on @TheView: "Don't feel bad for me or my family, we're really strong…My dad's actually really well right now. And I believe in the power of prayer, and I think it's helping." https://t.co/AKyj1tBogR pic.twitter.com/GSLUMVrxhy — ABC News (@ABC) May 11, 2018





Meghan McCain also took a moment to address Sadler directly.

“Kelly, here’s a little newsflash — and this might be a little bit intense for 11 o’clock in the morning on a Friday, but: We’re all dying,” she said. “I’m dying, you’re dying; we’re all dying. And I want to say that since my dad has been diagnosed … I really feel like I understand the meaning of life, and it is not how you die; it is how you live.”

.@MeghanMcCain to White House aide who dismissed her father as "dying anyway": "It is not how you die, it is how you live." https://t.co/TGSoODzpzo pic.twitter.com/MiVc4aGC9Z — ABC News (@ABC) May 11, 2018





That statement drew loud applause, and McCain didn’t mince her words as she continued. Though Sadler has reportedly apologized to the McCains, his daughter feels that more should be done.

“I don’t understand what kind of environment you’re working in when that would be acceptable and then you could come to work the next day and still have a job,” she said, adding that her father’s critics were “nothing burgers.”

“Nobody’s going to remember you,” she added.

Meghan McCain on Kelly Sadler’s comments about her father: "I don't understand what kind of environment you're working in when that would be acceptable and then you could come to work the next day and still have a job." (via ABC) pic.twitter.com/WpiMGPlYUw — Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) May 11, 2018





Meghan McCain on comments mocking her father: "My father's legacy is going to be talked about for hundreds and hundreds of years. These people? Nothing burgers." (via ABC) pic.twitter.com/g0pMJlJXbA — Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) May 11, 2018





Read more from Yahoo Lifestyle:



Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day.



