Serena Williams's HBO series 'Being Serena' is shedding light on the crisis of black maternal mortality
The second episode of HBO’s Being Serena aired Wednesday night, giving viewers an inside look at the life-threatening complications the tennis star faced after giving birth to her daughter, Alexis Olympia. “My pregnancy was so easy,” Williams says in the episode’s beginning, sitting stoically in her living room. “But once I had my C-section, everything was pretty much a nightmare.”

Williams had hoped for a vaginal delivery, but when her daughter’s heart rate began dropping during contractions, doctors decided to opt for a cesarean section. As the 36-year-old has a history of blood clots, her risk of developing a clot from surgery was higher — which made the prospect of a C-section terrifying. Fortunately, the procedure went smoothly, and Williams gave birth to a healthy baby girl. But it was a few days later, while she was still recovering in the hospital, that things took a turn.

“I told the nurse I can’t breathe, I need a mask,” Williams remembers in the episode, as an image of her wincing in pain on a hospital bed flashes on screen. “I put the oxygen mask on and I started coughing because I couldn’t breathe. It hurt so bad.” Williams says she was rushed into surgery, where doctors restitched her C-section and tested her for blood clots. But when the tests came back negative, they insisted everything was fine. Williams adamantly insisted they were wrong.

“I’m like, ‘Listen, I need you to run a CT scan with dye,’” she told the nurses. “‘I have a pulmonary embolism [blood clot] in my lungs — I know, I’ve had them before, I know my body.’” When doctors performed a CT scan, they found several blood clots in her lungs, as well as a hematoma in her abdomen. Thanks to her insistence, they were able to remove them and put a filter in her vein to stop it from happening again.

Photo: HBO More

In an interview with Vogue earlier this year, Williams said that nurses pushed back against her, saying she might be “confused” because of the pain medicine, and doubted her every step of the way. It’s for that reason that Alexis Ohanian, Williams’s husband, says she saved her own live. “I was grateful that she had the wherewithal to speak up. She knew her body better than any of us,” Ohanian says in the film.