The Big Bang Theory’s Mayim Bialik on Amy’s Wedding Dress, Season 13, and Understanding Boy Brains
They did it: Sheldon and Amy are married, and it only took eight seasons of The Big Bang Theory to get them to the altar.

Amy portrayer Mayim Bialik, the Blossom alum who’s also a neuroscientist and divorced mom of two sons, chatted with Vulture before the big prime-time nuptials about the complicated feelings her TV wedding (and her TV wedding dress) sparked for her, whether or not she wants to see TBBT season 13 happen, and how she’s using her science background to help boys and their parents (and girls) understand the inner workings of the male mind in her new book, Boying Up.

Congratulations, you’re a prime-time bride.

Yes, it’s happening!

There are lots of great little moments in the episode, but I think Sheldon and Amy’s vows are the best part. They’re incredibly sweet, but in ways that are specific and appropriate to who the characters are, and who they are as a couple. And the reactions of the other characters felt genuine.

That’s us. We’re a very close cast. For me, it felt a lot like a real wedding, all of us being there and preparing together.

Was it emotional for all of you? As you said, you’re all very close as a cast, but also, Sheldon and Amy were set up by Howard and Raj, and the other characters have been a big part of their relationship.

Yes. I think that there’s a lot of real aspects to the whole process … me and Melissa [Rauch] being added to the group on camera, but also off camera. We were added in the fourth season as regulars, so it has been a real journey in that sense. I can’t speak for everybody else, but what was the most special for me was being able to do all these things with Jim. Honestly, I respect him so much, and I really adore him as a person and as a castmate. But since he and I are not super mushy-gushy kind of people, it was really good to be able to go through this wedding experience with someone who has such a similar process of understanding acting, because it made it playful. I don’t know if that came across. I don’t watch the show, so I only know what it was like to perform it. But I wanted the vows to be sweet, but also playful. I think that took some of the heaviness off it. That’s what was really emotional for me, being able to be part of that process with Jim, the person that I know off camera.

Sheldon and Amy are both very career-minded, and are very confident in themselves professionally. They don’t dole out that respect for their fellow scientists so frequently, so when they work together on Sheldon’s “super asymmetry” idea — sparked by Amy — it was a really nice way to cement their mutual respect for each other. Especially going into a marriage that was a long time coming, and not without its challenges.

It’s true. I think it’s a really interesting way for them to enter what otherwise could’ve been a very predictable wedding. Millions of people have been waiting for them to get married, so yes, I think it’s very sweet, and that’s to the credit of our writers.

Had you and Jim talked to the writers about what you thought was most important for the wedding episode?

Oh, no. That’s not how our job works. It was on the page.

Did you have in mind what you hoped it would be like?

Honestly, I don’t know. My wedding in real life was very unusual, because I’m an unusual person, so I’m actually not big on vows. I think if you want to say something intimate to your partner, just do it privately. The whole notion of vows to me was, in real life, I was like, “Ugh, who wants to say all those things in front of other people?” I think I felt the same kind of anxiety about it [as Amy], but I think the writers really parlayed it, and I was able to as an actor parlay it into nervous excitement.

You wrote on your website, Grok Nation, about your complicated feelings about Amy’s wedding dress, and trying on dresses, in relation to the fact that you’re divorced, and how it made you think about whether you might be trying on wedding dresses again in real life. How has that settled with you? Or has it?

I think it’s still awkward. I think that there’s still going to be a lot of comments about it once it airs, and not just from my mother — but she’ll probably be the first. There’ll be some follow-up stuff both on my YouTube channel and on Grok Nation … I’ve decided to write more about some of those more complicated feelings. It’s safe to say I’m glad it’s over, and I’m ready to move on into the next thing.