Is There Now An Opportunity In Ecolab Inc (NYSE:ECL)?
Today we’re going to take a look at the well-established Ecolab Inc (NYSE:ECL). The company’s stock saw a double-digit share price rise of over 10% in the past couple of months on the NYSE. As a large-cap stock with high coverage by analysts, you could assume any recent changes in the company’s outlook is already priced into the stock. However, could the stock still be trading at a relatively cheap price? Let’s take a look at Ecolab’s outlook and value based on the most recent financial data to see if the opportunity still exists. Check out our latest analysis for Ecolab

What’s the opportunity in Ecolab?

Ecolab appears to be overvalued by 72% at the moment, based on my discounted cash flow valuation. The stock is currently priced at US$145.49 on the market compared to my intrinsic value of $84.62. This means that the buying opportunity has probably disappeared for now. In addition to this, it seems like Ecolab’s share price is quite stable, which could mean two things: firstly, it may take the share price a while to fall back down to an attractive buying range, and secondly, there may be less chances to buy low in the future once it reaches that value. This is because the stock is less volatile than the wider market given its low beta.

What does the future of Ecolab look like?

NYSE:ECL Future Profit May 9th 18 More

Investors looking for growth in their portfolio may want to consider the prospects of a company before buying its shares. Buying a great company with a robust outlook at a cheap price is always a good investment, so let’s also take a look at the company’s future expectations. Ecolab’s earnings over the next few years are expected to increase by 33.27%, indicating a highly optimistic future ahead. This should lead to more robust cash flows, feeding into a higher share value.

What this means for you:

Are you a shareholder? It seems like the market has well and truly priced in ECL’s positive outlook, with shares trading above its fair value. However, this brings up another question – is now the right time to sell? If you believe ECL should trade below its current price, selling high and buying it back up again when its price falls towards its real value can be profitable. But before you make this decision, take a look at whether its fundamentals have changed.

Are you a potential investor? If you’ve been keeping an eye on ECL for a while, now may not be the best time to enter into the stock. The price has surpassed its true value, which means there’s no upside from mispricing. However, the optimistic prospect is encouraging for ECL, which means it’s worth diving deeper into other factors in order to take advantage of the next price drop.

Price is just the tip of the iceberg. Dig deeper into what truly matters – the fundamentals – before you make a decision on Ecolab. You can find everything you need to know about Ecolab in the latest infographic research report. If you are no longer interested in Ecolab, you can use our free platform to see my list of over 50 other stocks with a high growth potential.



To help readers see pass the short term volatility of the financial market, we aim to bring you a long-term focused research analysis purely driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis does not factor in the latest price sensitive company announcements.



The author is an independent contributor and at the time of publication had no position in the stocks mentioned.