Amid Nationwide Calls For Gun Control, A Defiant NRA Readies Its Base For Battle
DALLAS ― John Lott, the National Rifle Association’s favorite academic and gun researcher, had a question for the mostly older, white, male crowd seated in front of him.

How many of them had heard someone say that federal gun research has been stymied for years because of Congress? Or that the U.S. has a uniquely high rate of gun homicide compared to other nations? Or that guns make suicide easier?

All those claims were lies, he said, told by gun control advocates and repeated by an unquestioning media intent on pushing an anti-gun agenda.

Over the weekend the NRA held its 147th annual convention, and Lott, whose highly discredited book More Guns, Less Crime, is considered the bible of the gun lobby, addressed a packed room inside the Kay Hutchison Convention Center here in downtown Dallas. For three days, gun rights enthusiasts gathered to peruse the newest firearms and gear, attend educational seminars such as “Refuse to be a victim: Crime prevention strategies,” and “14 factors impacting your shooting performance under duress,” and to simply have fun.

Many were also there to send a pointed political message: NRA, we support you.

Economist and author John Lott Jr. addresses attendees of "The War on Guns" seminar at the NRA annual meeting on May 6. (Joseph Rushmore for HuffPost) More

The NRA is now on the defense as it faces off against a country that is mostly fed up with current gun control laws that did not prevent horrific mass shootings like those that took place in Las Vegas, Sutherland Springs, Texas, and most recently in Parkland, Florida.

Since February, the U.S. has witnessed nationwide protests, student walkouts and countless state legislative wins. This coming November, advocates promise to vote out politicians who take money from the NRA, which opposes virtually every state and federal effort to tighten existing gun laws or pass any new gun safety measures.

At the convention, many attendees disputed the idea that gun control is gaining momentum.

Instead, they said it was a false narrative created by the media. Fake news, in other words. Many participants told HuffPost that journalists ignore positive stories about guns, such as home invasions thwarted by gun owners. They said the media spends a disproportionate amount of time covering gun violence.

A crowd watches a screen showing a live feed of President Trump's speech at the NRA annual meeting on May 4. (Joseph Rushmore for HuffPost) More

“It’s what the press chooses to cover,” said Brian Lilly, 49, who attended the convention for the first time this year, alongside his father and his 18-year-old son, Benjamin. “They are censoring what the true pulse of the citizenry thinks.”