Watch the moment hero officer helps save baby's life at the side of the road
An off-duty police officer has been hailed a hero after he stepped in to save a baby’s life.

Dashcam footage from Jeremie Nix’s police car shows the moment the baby’s mother, Nechole Crowell, flagged him down at an intersection in Ocala, Florida.

Nix, a K9 Deputy in the police force, swiftly turned his vehicle around and pulled in behind the distraught woman.

He immediately began CPR on her three-month-old son, who was struggling to breathe.

Dashcam footage from the officer’s car captured the dramatic scenes as they unfolded (Marion County Sheriff’s Office) More

When the little boy failed to respond, the officer quickly drove him to the nearby Ocala Regional Medical Center where medics took over.

The Marion County Sheriff’s Office said on their YouTube page: “Deputy Nix delivered the child to medical personnel, who then began treating the child. We are happy to report that baby Kingston is doing very well and doctors say he will make a full recovery!!

“Doctors also said that because of K9 Deputy Nix’s actions, baby Kingston is alive today. We are tremendously proud of Deputy Nix and we can already see that he and baby Kingston will have a deep connection that will last a lifetime!!”

Doctors say that baby King will make a full recovery (Nechole Crowell/Facebook) More

MOST POPULAR TODAY ON YAHOO

Heartwarming images of Deputy Nix and Kingston – known as King – have since been shared on Facebook, where his relieved mum has been expressing her gratitude.

“Let me just say that yesterday GOD showed me just how real he was,” she wrote. “My son KING was barely breathing, & fighting for his life.

“My sister & I noticed an officer sitting at a red light & we got his attention. With his fast thinking HE & GOD saved my son. His word to me was ‘Don’t you worry, I will not leave until I help save your son! GOD had me in the right place because he knew you needed me…'”

Deputy Jeremie Nix has been credited with saving baby King’s life (Nechole Crowell/Facebook) More

Nechole added that Deputy Nix had since returned to visit King with his wife.

She wrote: “THANK YOU OFFICER JAY NIX FROM THE OCALA SHERIFFS OFFICE K-9 unit !! I just wanted the world to know how great this officer is, & how GREAT GOD is…….. not all officers are bad, he’s one of many good guys ❤️❤️ KING & I WILL FOREVER APPRECIATE YOU.”