Tweeters Erupt Over Trump Aide's Cruel Taunt About John McCain 'Dying Anyway'
People are calling for White House aide Kelly Sadler to resign after she allegedly mocked Sen. John McCain’s (R-Ariz.) battle against an aggressive form of brain cancer.

During a meeting on Thursday, Sadler reportedly dismissed McCain’s opposition to Gina Haspel’s nomination for CIA director by inferring it did not matter because he was “dying anyway.”

McCain’s wife, Cindy McCain, fired back at the reported comment with this tweet:

@kellysadler45 May I remind you my husband has a family, 7 children and 5 grandchildren.

— Cindy McCain (@cindymccain) May 10, 2018

Sadler’s quip also sparked anger among hundreds of prominent Twitter users. Many called out the Trump administration for remaining silent on the issue, particularly after its recent campaign of fury about comedian Michelle Wolf’s performance during the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner:

The White House communications official who mocked “dying” McCain during a meeting, is @kellysadler45. Our taxes pay her damn salary.

Oh, one more thing. Kindly, don’t ever talk to me again about the cruelty of a “smoky-eye” joke. https://t.co/sGtDlcsJD4

— Ana Navarro (@ananavarro) May 10, 2018

With Kelly Sadler hoping a war hero with cancer will die soon and Donald Trump getting a crowd to boo Barack Obama...



It is clear that Melania Trump’s “Be Best” campaign is working well.



Yay FLOTUS!

— Tony Posnanski (@tonyposnanski) May 11, 2018

Kelly Sadler's comments about John McCain are reprehensible. To mock someone dying of cancer is grotesque, to mock a POW American Hero who's dying of cancer is inexcusable.



There's no room for comments like that in politics.



Let us all say a prayer for the McCain Family.

— Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) May 11, 2018

White House official Kelly Sadler on John McCain Re: Haspel nomination: "He's dying anyway”



Where’s the outrage? Or is that only over Sarah Sanders at the WH Correspondents dinner? https://t.co/6elKydT3Qn

— Adam Parkhomenko (@AdamParkhomenko) May 10, 2018

How are you spending your Thursday night? I’m spending mine checking all the Twitter accounts of people who lost their mind over Michelle Wolf (a comedian) to see if they bother to react over Kelly Sadler (a WHITE HOUSE OFFICIAL).

— Marybeth Glenn (@MBGlenn) May 11, 2018

Kelly Sadler is the White House aide who mocked John McCain’s terminal condition. May her career be in terminal condition.

— John Podhoretz (@jpodhoretz) May 10, 2018

And what exactly has Kelly Sadler sacrificed for this country? When has she ever had skin in the game?

— Col. Morris Davis (@ColMorrisDavis) May 10, 2018

John McCain is a war hero, and whether you respect him as a politician or not, he’s always been loyal to America. As opposed to Donald Trump, who committed treason. How dare Kelly Sadler or anyone else in the traitorous Trump administration make fun of McCain because he’s dying?

— Palmer Report (@PalmerReport) May 10, 2018

@kellysadler45 You're a disgrace. Apologize to the entire McCain family, then resign.

— Spring Duck (@KikiMcKennaBurn) May 10, 2018

The voice is the voice of Kelly Sadler, but the spirit is the spirit of Donald Trump.

— Bill Kristol (@BillKristol) May 11, 2018

Kelly Sadler should resign.

Any member of the Trump administration who does not demand Kelly Sandler’s resignation should resign.

Any WH staffer who did not walk out of that meeting should resign.

Hell, they should all resign.https://t.co/cnMUHh2kuM

— TDPattillo (@TDPattillo) May 10, 2018

There is not one person in the GOP that can measure up to John McCain's shoe heels. Kelly Sadler and all who did not walk out after that - may you get your just comeuppance . Karma will get you. https://t.co/0ejkqPmkox

— TRH Will (@Willbys) May 10, 2018

So in leiu of actual proof you’re gonna demean a veteran on his death bed? I wasn’t a fan of McCain’s politics but, cmon, there’s a basic level of decency folks in our country used to adhere to. Be best, lady.

— Jill Hamilton (@Jill_Hamilton) May 10, 2018

This is a Trump White House reality, and this type of ignorance is expected. SMDH! So disrespectful to Senator McCain

— Faye Russell (@ATLFaye) May 10, 2018

Our Country deserves better. So much unkindness and hatred has been unleashed with this administration. That was NOT A JOKE those are words directly from aides that have no empathy or historical understanding of who Senator McCain is.

— Maggie (@flyachihuahua) May 10, 2018