Governor Ricardo Rosselló: Puerto Rico Is a 'Geopolitical Black Hole'
On Wednesday morning, Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rosselló sat beside Airbnb CEO Brian Chesky at one of the company’s swanky buildings in San Francisco. The two were announcing a partnership to bring more tourism to the island, where some residents are still without power and even without homes, following the ravages of Hurricane Maria in September. “One of the best ways to help an economy is to continue to send visitors there,” Chesky said.

Airbnb is just one stop on a whirlwind tour Rosselló is making to some of the most prominent companies in Silicon Valley, as he tries to take advantage of the bittersweet limelight that the Category 4 storm has put on the U.S. territory. Devastation also means a chance to reimagine things as the island rebuilds, and the 39-year-old is casting Puerto Rico as a “blank canvas” for innovators to come and experiment.

The leader of 3.4 million people is also pushing for a bigger investment: statehood. At Airbnb, he criticized what he sees as “two tiers of citizenship” and argued that statehood would super charge the island’s long struggling economy. “We need to ask ourselves, in the 21st century, if we are satisfied with the notion that this standard bearer for democracy has a colonial territory,” he said. “In our view, that needs to change.”

TIME sat down with the Democrat after the press conference to talk about how the recovery is going, why he’s courting Big Tech and whether Donald Trump has been a good president for Puerto Ricans.

The following has been edited for brevity and clarity.

Looking back on everything the federal government and Trump have done in the wake of Hurricane Maria, do you give it a 10 out of 10?

As I told the President himself, recoveries are evaluated as time goes along. There have been some things I’ve been very happy with and some things that I haven’t. I’ll give you examples of both. I’ve been very unsatisfied with the Army Corps of Engineers and their effort to rebuild the energy grid. I’ve been unsatisfied with some of the additional bureaucratic steps that have been added for Puerto Rico, particularly on the FEMA side. On other fronts, we’ve been working well with FEMA. I was also very satisfied in the emergency phase with the military’s involvement…. We’re all going to be evaluated on how this ends up.

So not quite a 10 out of 10.

I shy away from giving a number. I don’t tend to give grades. I used to do that when I was a professor. Not anymore.

How are people feeling in terms of getting their lives back together?

In the majority of cases, it’s already reaching normalcy. The school system opened. Businesses are opening. Tourism by June is expected to reach pre-Maria levels but probably even higher. One of the things that was always lagging behind was energy. Today, 98% of clients are being served. But that is the grand scheme of things. There are some places where people don’t have jobs and their homes haven’t been fixed. Even though it is smaller scale, about 22,000 clients still don’t have access to energy and there are some places where 40% of the municipality doesn’t have energy. That is a hard pill to swallow and we’ve been working as quickly as possible to mitigate that.

You mentioned that the profile of Puerto Rico has been raised because of the storm. It seems like a mixed bag as you try to draw tourists. Other regions like Napa saw many people cancel trips after high-profile wildfires, for example.

We didn’t choose the catastrophe, it came to us. Because of that, there’s a level of profile. Compared to Napa, a lot less people knew about Puerto Rico. In fact, polls show that prior to the storm about 25% of American citizens knew that we were American citizens. After all of the media coverage, about 85% know now. We need to use this as an opportunity to showcase Puerto Rico for what it is, what it has, what needs to be changed. Because prior to the storm, we didn’t have the political wherewithal and we didn’t have the bully pulpit. Now we at least have some of the bully pulpit.

Does it surprise you that such low numbers of Americans were aware that Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens?

Puerto Rico is a very delicate issue. It is sort of a geopolitical black hole. In the past, because there were so many issues – the United States has to deal with Russia, Iran – you could sort of put it into a second or third tier. Not a lot of people would fight about it, and we didn’t have the political structure — because we don’t have senators or congressmen — to put that idea out there. Now, after the storm, there is this awareness about Puerto Rico.