Opinion | Britain’s Appalling Transgender ‘Debate’
I deeply resent the idea that my identity gets to be “debated” in the first place. I’m not alone in this; a number of activists in Britain protested the show for this very reason. (Others boycotted it because of Ms. Jenner herself.) As Dr. Adrian Harrop — an trans advocate who declined an invitation to be part of the show — told the website Pink News, “This debate is not about incorporating trans people into mainstream society and improving their lives and making sure they can access and engage with society on a meaningful level. This is a very basic debate around whether existing as a trans person is a valid, legitimate way to live one’s life.”

I understand that trans people participate in these public whippings in hopes of opening the hearts of strangers. But I’ve begun to wonder whether this work sometimes is self-defeating. As James Thurber once wrote, “You might as well fall flat on your face as lean over too far backward.”

And bending over backward is how I would have described an attempt to open the hearts of adherents — like Ms. Greer — of the subset of feminism now populated by people that some trans activists call “terfs,” or trans-exclusionary radical feminists, who reject the idea that trans women know who they are. Journalists love to write clever think pieces about terfs and about the supposedly droll question, w hat makes a woman? (It is worth asking why the identities of trans men, whose numbers are by some counts considerably larger than that of trans women, are almost never interrogated in these pieces.)

Strangely, during Tuesday’s “debate,” Ms. Greer denied having ever said anything critical about transgender women, ever, and seemed to express a newfound respect for non-binary identities. It wasn’t clear, at least to me, whether she was gaslighting her audience or whether her views had genuinely evolved. One of the panelists noted, “She doesn’t know what she thinks,” and it was hard to disagree.

But anyone who thinks that Ms. Greer’s about-face created an atmosphere of conciliation and understanding should get used to disappointment. In the wake of her retreat, some audience members began to heckle and yell at the panel members, and the discussion turned into a melee of trans people trying to talk while other individuals (who presumably shared Ms. Greer’s earlier views) shouted schoolyard taunts at them like, as one panelist described it, “a bunch of 5-year-olds.”