Opinion | Good Riddance to ‘Blue Slips’
Partisans might argue that it is better to let a judgeship sit vacant, even for years, than to have it filled by a president from the other party. But this misunderstands the work of the federal courts.

As any federal judge or law clerk can tell you, the vast majority of cases heard by federal courts are not political. While important to the litigants, these garden-variety cases involve the straightforward application of settled law, and they would come out the same way regardless of the judge’s political views. Hot-button cases in the news are the exception, not the rule. Even the Supreme Court — which picks the few cases that it hears, and therefore has an especially politicized docket — decides about two-thirds of its cases by unanimous vote.

As a practical matter, it’s much less important to have a judge appointed by a Republican or a Democrat than it is to have a judge appointed, period — confirmed and hearing cases as soon as possible. A judge’s politics will make a difference in only a tiny fraction of cases, but her presence on the bench will make a huge difference in terms of resolving cases expeditiously.

Of course, judges must be qualified. Fortunately, given the prestige of the federal bench and the longstanding expectation of strong nominees, this has not been an issue. During the prior four presidencies, roughly 90 percent of nominees received “qualified” or “well qualified” ratings from the American Bar Association.

Even the nominees of President Trump, who has a contentious relationship with the bar association, have earned strong ratings. For the current session of Congress, 100 percent of his nominees have been rated “qualified” or better, with almost 80 percent rated “well qualified.” A handful of nominees from the first session who were deemed “not qualified” or too controversial got withdrawn — which reflects the process working as it should.

In the short term, with filibusters and now blue slips effectively gone (at least for appellate nominees), President Trump will enjoy a greater ability to appoint judges than his predecessors, which might not sit well with his opponents. But going forward, presidents of both parties will benefit from this power — and so will the federal judiciary, which will operate at or near capacity for longer.

Both parties wanted filibusters and blue slips gone for political reasons. But their removal will actually reduce gamesmanship in nominations. The cynical practice of a senator using these tools to block or stall nominees will be much more difficult. Instead, vacancies will be filled on more of a rolling basis, not just in partisan spurts when a single party controls the White House and Senate.

So, let’s cheer the effective end of blue slips for judicial nominees. Today, their absence will benefit Republicans; tomorrow, their absence will benefit Democrats. But over the long run, the true winner will be the federal judiciary — and all of us.