Rachel Kushner’s ‘The Mars Room’ Offers a Blackly Comic Take on Prison Life
Romy is bright enough but drifts through high school getting high, and afterward makes her living by giving lap dances at a strip bar called the Mars Room, a place so seedy, she says, that “if you’d showered you had a competitive edge” and “if your tattoos weren’t misspelled you were hot property.” Except for an art teacher she takes up with for a while, her taste in men runs to dirtbags, and with one of them, the doorman at another strip bar, she has a child, Jackson, who is 7 when the novel begins. He’s a sweet, charming boy, and she loves him after her fashion, but is at best an indifferent mother. Jackson spends so much time fobbed off on a neighboring Hispanic family that he starts speaking Spanish. On what will prove to be her last Thanksgiving as a free woman, Romy parks him with a babysitter and spends the day with one of her Mars Room regulars.

Part of Kushner’s achievement here is that she makes this character, for all her shortcomings, so appealing. Romy’s narration darts around in a voice that is tough, cynical, a little defensive at times, but ruthlessly honest and without a trace of self-pity. She has some of the bruised sweetness of Denis Johnson’s alkies and junkies in “Jesus’ Son.” That Romy is white makes her something of an exception at Stanville. (White prisoners, she says sarcastically, tend to be either drunken drivers or baby killers, and in fact she has a baby-killer roommate, the aptly named Laura Lipp, who never shuts up.) Many of the others, some of whom she eventually bonds with in a kind of extended prison family, come from even worse circumstances: You feel that they were practically programmed to wind up in jail. But Kushner imparts to them, too, a redemptive gloss of dignity and individuality. Romy’s best friends are Conan, a trash-talking trans man so masculine-seeming that he gets sent to a male prison for a while; and the gentle, philosophical Sammy, so at home in prison that she invariably manages to be sent back there. She thinks of her paroles not as departures but as vacations.

Image

Some of Stanville life we get to see through the eyes of a character named Gordon Hauser. Except for the Fudds, as Conan calls the guards, he’s one of very few non-prisoners in the book, but in his own way he’s almost as confined. He’s a graduate-school dropout, who never finished a Ph.D. thesis on Thoreau, and after a stint as an adjunct at a community college settles into teaching G.E.D. classes in prison, because the money’s better and it seems easier. Lonely and depressed, he commutes to Stanville from an isolated cabin in the Sierra foothills, where he spends way too much time studying the journals of Ted Kaczynski. Gordon is well-intentioned but morally a little obtuse — a stand-in for the reader, perhaps — and his gradual discovery of the mindlessness and injustice of prison life, especially on death row, is one of the book’s plot levers. Kushner says of the lifers: “All of them were people who suffered and along the way of their suffering they made others suffer, and Gordon could not see that making them suffer lifelong would accrue to justice. It added new harm to old.”

The other thing driving the plot is the death, about halfway through, of Romy’s mother, who though herself a lousy parent, has been taking care of Jackson, who is now catapulted into “the system.” Because she is no longer his guardian, legally speaking, Romy can find out nothing about him, and the more she is rebuffed by legalese and bureaucratic mumbo-jumbo, the more she anguishes.

“The Mars Room” makes you share her frustration. It’s one of those books that enrage you even as they break your heart, and in its passion for social justice you can finally discern a connection between all three of Kushner’s novels. Both “Telex From Cuba” and “The Flamethrowers” paid glancing attention to the downtrodden and the exploited: sugar-cane cutters in “Telex,” Brazilian rubber gatherers and Italian factory workers in “Flamethrowers.” In “The Mars Room” the neglected become the focus, and it’s apparent that Kushner’s imagination, almost Dickensian in its amplitude, also embraces some of Dickens’s reformist zeal. In its small way, “The Mars Room” does for prison what “Hard Times” and “Nicholas Nickleby” did for 19th-century education.