‘Atlanta’ Skips a Grade
But being a stickler for sense risks missing the sensibility. “Atlanta” can think pretty big and also movingly small. Alfred’s breaking into a big, semi-embarrassed smile might be the invisible car of character development. You’ll never forget it, and who knows if you’ll see it again. Amid the yeah, we sure did do that mechanics is a lot of magic — pleasurable stuff whose rib-tickling and cultural acuity defy easy explanation. So perhaps the crucial question isn’t actually what is “Atlanta,” but how it’s done and why what it’s doing is so good?

The movies have at least a partial answer. There’s a concept for an impossible, insinuating lightness that can pass between characters. It’s called the Lubitsch touch, after the great German-American Jewish filmmaker Ernst Lubitsch, a founding father of American screen comedy. Lubitsch’s apex was the 1930s and 1940s (he directed “Trouble in Paradise,” “The Merry Widow” and “The Shop Around the Corner,” to name but three), and this touch of his is evident in the comedies of Nora Ephron and certain Robert Altman movies and decades of TV, including “The Mary Tyler Moore Show,” “Golden Girls” and “Happy Endings.”

A key element is the incongruity of tone and circumstance. Lubitsch would drop you somewhere, often in Europe after a revolution and between the wars, then tell dirty jokes and hatch a bunch of rude schemes. You’d get a lot of cocked eyebrows and double entendres, delivered with panache by master winkers like Miriam Hopkins, Maurice Chevalier, Claudette Colbert and Jeanette MacDonald. Statecraft, capitalism, political power and patriotism are willfully mixed up with lust and love. You’re laughing at these dances of decorum and indecorousness, at how the eyes and posture can say what the tongue cannot.

The touch can be hard to detect. But try dusting for fingerprints. It’s Mary Richards’s suppressing a crackup at the funeral for Chuckles the Clown, then bursting into tears when the priest tells her Chuckles would have wanted her to laugh. It’s the deli fake-orgasm scene in “When Harry Met Sally” and just about every episode of “Seinfeld.”

“Atlanta” has a not-dissimilar finesse. But where Lubitsch set his sights on sex, “Atlanta” plays with race, fame, money and moods. It’s how you forget that that invisible car took out some clubgoers as it zoomed away from gunfire. It’s how Van (Zazie Beetz) discovers that the Drake doing Instagram selfies with scores of women isn’t Drake at all, just some cardboard that, for $20, you can pose with, too. It’s the way a shot of Earn watching Alfred record something at the offices of a Spotify-like outfit captures a blurry sea of mostly white employees feasting their gaze upon the rapper. He turns around, and they all scramble back to what they’d been doing earlier; even the phones remember to resume ringing. It’s a line like “It’s Michael Vick” or, from Thursday’s finale, “For systemic reasons.”

The “Atlanta” touch is fantasy and depression, weed and trauma; the unshakable, unnamable savoriness of certain dreams. Actually, in lots of moments — facial expressions, silences, décor — it’s all five tastes coming over you at once. The touch gets at the sometimes simultaneous sinking and buoyancy of being black in America. “Atlanta” specializes in the properties of blackness, the adjustment of heft and levity for bizarrely emotional effect. It’s a form of both irony and telepathy — knowing that you’ll know what is being unsaid. Robert Townsend, Dave Chappelle and Key and Peele made similar adjustments on their sketch shows, but within the precincts of satire and farce. The “Atlanta” touch works under all situations, comedic and otherwise. Blackness isn’t a cause or a solution but a state of being around which anything is possible. It’s another show about nothing, but where nothing can’t stay nothing for long.