Lauren Ridloff’s Quiet Power: ‘My Life Has Changed in Every Way’
The role of Sarah Norman, a cleaning woman who falls for a teacher at a school for the deaf, is a plum one for deaf actresses. Phyllis Frelich won a Tony Award playing the part in the original Broadway production, which opened in 1980, and Marlee Matlin won an Academy Award for the 1986 film adaptation.

“The play had a huge impact on the growing awareness of the deaf community, its culture and American Sign Language,” Ms. Matlin said by email. And Ms. Ridloff, she said, “brings a fluidity and lightness to the role that I hadn’t seen before.”

Some critics have objected to the sexual politics of the play — a teacher getting involved with a woman he is supposed to be educating — and its traditionalism — Sarah’s fantasies are domestic, including a microwave and a blender. “That’s where you can see, perhaps, the time period the play comes from, and if the play was rewritten now she might be excited about different things,” Ms. Ridloff acknowledged. “But, in her defense, I got really excited about having a Vitamix.”

For Ms. Ridloff, the most jarring aspect of doing the play has been that it requires her, in one brief, angry scene, to use her voice, which she had ceased doing at age 13 to prevent people from unfairly assessing her intelligence based on her vocal intelligibility. “When she gets to that part, that rawness is real,” said Julie Hochgesang, a childhood friend who teaches linguistics at Gallaudet University. “And the rest of it — the woman learning to be her own and being so freaking graceful and strong through all of it — that’s real too.”

Ms. Ridloff compares the experience of using her voice during the play to a crotch shot, saying that at first she felt exposed, and vulnerable, and ugly. “I cried thinking about it,” she said. “I lived in fear of that part.” Now, she said, after nearly a year with the role and help from a vocal coach, “it feels empowering to me — like finally I own every part of myself.” But she said, “I don’t see myself ever using my voice on a conversational level — that’s just not who I am.”

Mr. Jackson, who learned sign language for the play, said Ms. Ridloff demonstrated an unusual fierceness. “The bravery to unleash that voice, in a room full of strangers, after 20-plus years of not using it, spoke to me about the caliber of that person who was willing to dive into that dark and scary place,” he said. “She’s brilliant, and it would be truly stupid of our business not to make a space for a talent like that.”