Opinion | In My Mother’s Eyes, and Mine
Mom functioned through most of her life with one poorly working eye that nobody wanted to admit was rapidly getting worse. As a child, I somehow never connected the fact that I had the only mom in all of suburbia who didn’t drive with my friends’ questions about why her eyes were different colors. Because Mom didn’t wear glasses and Dad did, I grew up believing that he was the one with eye problems.

To be fair, we had many enablers to help construct a comfortable, dishonest world. Because blindness induces so much fear in everyone, friends, teachers, store clerks and even ophthalmologists colluded to turn my mother and me into people who appeared to have far better vision. At a young age, I’d memorized the seldom-changing eye chart so I could perform better on eye exams. I hadn’t set out to deceive anyone; I simply wanted to make people happy because they acted so pleased when I improved.

So when I’d told her about the Colorado Center for the Blind program all these years later, she said: “But, Cath, you never needed a blind school before. You’ve even been teaching college!” Then, with concern in her voice, she asked, “Has something changed, baby?”

I struggled to find words. Yes, things had been changing. But it wasn’t about what my eyes weren’t seeing; it was about how I was coming to see myself. After decades of pretending to be someone with decent eyesight, I was at last ready to confront this blindness that always hovered at the edges of my world. Skiing with a blindfold was just the beginning.

I’d like to say we were finally able to speak about this freely, but families being families, we never did. I wish we were able to have chided each other for allowing stigma to pull the wool over our eyes (pun intended!) for so many years. We might have bonded over how much work it takes to spend day after day pretending to see the world just like everyone else. We might have even credited our poor eyesight for giving us a fresh perspective on things that fully sighted people take for granted. Imagine swapping stories about how we coped, about absurd situations, about how we made alternative sense of the world!

But, honestly, I didn’t need my mother to do this. Growing up before disability rights and with a mother who berated her for being flawed, my mom had perfected her own strategies and blazed her own trail. Surely, she faced self-doubt and pushed past both her own fears and those of others.

She cultivated nonconformity and invented tools to deal with having to give up a career in New York City in order to be a good wife hauling kids and groceries on a bicycle in suburbia.