Review: A Multiple-Exposure ‘Me and My Girl’ at Encores!
But by the time the Sondheim revolution ripped up the musical theater playbook in the 1970s, the things a show like “Me and My Girl” was nostalgic for seemed profoundly dim in both senses of the word. Its antecedents in the operetta and music hall traditions had largely passed out of pop consciousness.

And its basic stupidity should have required a content advisory: Pay no attention to the story.

Which nevertheless is this: A larky cockney named Bill Snibson (Christian Borle) learns that he is the unlikely heir to the Hareford earldom. Standing between him and that jackpot is a stipulation in the late earl’s will that he be found “fit and proper” by his newfound aunt, the Duchess of Dene (Harriet Harris), and her longtime admirer, Sir John Tremayne (Chuck Cooper).

“Fit and proper” means “our type.” Snibson isn’t.

Also complicating matters is a society gold digger named Lady Jaqueline Carstone (Lisa O’Hare), who promptly ditches her twit of a fiancé, Gerald Bolingbroke (Mark Evans), when Snibson’s higher earning potential emerges. Ah, but Snibson is already in love with Sally Smith (Laura Michelle Kelly), his cockney gal, and proud of it.

How could a plot with three couples in various states of separation ever get resolved?

Before you can say triple wedding — though we are at least spared the traditional parade of bridal gowns — let’s avert our eyes from the book and listen to the score. “Score” is too grand a word for it, since it is more of a medley, including several songs from the original and seven others by Gay that were added 50 years later.

Amid the Gilbert and Sullivan pastiches and dance band ditties, all serviceable but unremarkable, a few stand out. “Once You Lose Your Heart,” a ballad for Sally, is a lovely tune (with banal words); the title number has an infectious lilt. The first-act closer, “The Lambeth Walk,” is less an ear worm than an ear snake, strangling you in its coil of endlessly repeating choruses.