Review: ‘Patrick Melrose’ Is Flat Despite a Peerless Benedict Cumberbatch
Based on the three episodes Showtime made available, that wasn’t enough to approximate the texture of Mr. St. Aubyn’s work — the way pathos, for better or worse, peeks through the cracks of his comic-splenetic detachment. There’s no way of knowing what the writer, David Nicholls, and director, Edward Berger, would have done with more space. But as it is, it feels as if they’re scrambling just to work in all their favorite bits from the books.

What they haven’t found time for, or didn’t know how to achieve, is a cinematic equivalent for Mr. St. Aubyn’s framing consciousness, the way Patrick and the other characters — the family members and friends who inhabit his desiccated upper-class milieu — pick over their own lives, fighting a battle of wits with no winners.

Instead they seem to have focused on getting across the story, whose shattering elements don’t prevent it from feeling too familiar, a tale whose various parts we’ve heard before. Mr. Nicholls flips the order of the first two books, beginning with “Bad News,” in which the 22-year-old Patrick flies to New York to retrieve his father’s ashes and goes on an epic cocaine-and-heroin bender, and following with “Never Mind,” the first novel, set during a day at the Melrose’s home in southern France in Patrick’s childhood.

The change disrupts the chronology but makes for a more unified, recovery-focused narrative, hitting us up front with Patrick at his most damaged. (And, of course, starting with Mr. Cumberbatch in the foreground rather than Sebastian Maltz, who plays Patrick as a child.)

Other decisions also seem aimed at providing a coherent narrative experience at all costs. Mr. Nicholls deals with the books’ reliance on interior monologue and description by putting snippets of Mr. St. Aubyn’s prose into the characters’ mouths as conventional dialogue, sometimes to salvage an acerbic bon mot but often just to get in background information.