Opinion | The Price of Saying ‘Me Too’ in China
As a message circulating among some Peking University student chat groups in recent weeks about Ms. Yue and her petition put it: “The Peking University Party bosses perceive the whole incident as political, involving students organizing and colluding with external forces.” Calling protests the result of foreign ideas has long been a dismissal tactic, but these Communist Party bosses are not wrong about it being political.

University campuses, and Peking University in particular, have often been at the forefront of the democracy movement here, something that has long troubled the Chinese leadership. In May 1919, to protest a provision in the Treaty of Versailles giving Japan control of Chinese territories, Peking University students demonstrated against imperialist exploitation and feudal rule in what would come to be known as the May 4 Movement. Seventy years later, students from universities all over the country once again staged pro-democracy protests, which led to the June 4 Tiananmen crackdown. The Triangle at Peking University campus was the very place where these protests were born.

In the decades that followed Tiananmen, China’s students seemingly went quiet. As economic growth took off, many in the country, students included, embraced a newly cynical motto: Keep your head down and make money. More recently, a growing number of students have embraced ultranationalist, pro-authoritarian views that were indifferent to civil liberties and checks and balances on power.

And so the open display of disobedience in the name of transparency at Peking University may have come as a surprise. “We ask the gentlemen in charge of the school: What are you actually afraid of?” the posters at the Triangle read. Ms. Yue, they said, was acting in the spirit of the May 4 Movement 100 years ago, in which students summoned the courage to question the authorities and administrators protested that they simply wanted to preserve stability.

For now, the parties appear to have reached a sort of détente. Several days after Ms. Yue posted her letter saying she was being harassed, she announced that she had returned to the university. Her demands for transparency in the rape case remain unanswered.

But China’s fledgling Me Too movement continues to achieve unexpected results: The professor accused of rape, Shen Yang, who had moved to positions at Nanjing and Shanghai Normal Universities, was fired; other men in academia have lost their jobs as a result of accusations against them. Can this movement spread beyond campuses? It’s difficult to say in a heavy censorship regime. But it would not be the first time that students started an uprising.