The House That Got Away
Elizabeth Kee, an associate broker for CORE real estate, encounters many buyers who suffer from unrequited house love, but she’s sure our minds can play tricks on us. “It wasn’t meant to be, but sometimes you look back on it and think: Why wasn’t that the one?” she said. “The more you think about it, you begin to idealize it in your mind and you begin to believe that space was actually better than it was.”

But letting go is not easy, particularly if you are still searching for your perfect house. Rebecca Foxon, 40, an artist in Manchester, N.H., occasionally drives past the house she didn’t buy three years ago, just to torment herself. “I whimper a little each time,” she said of the four-bedroom Craftsman-style house.

Mrs. Foxon and her husband, Scott Foxon, 38, a manager at Newbury Comics, still live with their two children in the cramped three-bedroom house she was hoping to move out of when she saw the Craftsman.

Initially, her four-bedroom love object was too expensive. But when the price came down, the Foxons’ house wasn’t ready to go on the market. “We were slowpokes,” Mrs. Foxon said. “That’s why I cry.”

The Foxons never found another house that measured up — even as Mrs. Foxon continues to scour listings for a bigger home. So either the Craftsman was an irreplaceable gem, or time has improved it, like fine wine. “My memory is definitely skewed,” Mrs. Foxon said, suspecting that her family might have outgrown the space by now anyway. But no matter, fantasies can self correct. “We could have added on if we wanted to,” she said.

It’s amazing what the mind can do if it really wants something. “Good memories tend to add luster with time,” said Dan Buettner, the author of “Blue Zones of Happiness: Lessons from the World’s Happiest People.” Rather than pine for some alternative existence, Mr. Buettner suggested we spruce up the space we already have: declutter, buy houseplants or rearrange the furniture.

But imagine what would happen if you received a second chance.

Cara Erickson, now 38, an artist, could not stop thinking about a three-bedroom cabin. It was 2008 and she was living in Pasadena, Calif., northeast of Los Angeles, and the cabin was in Crestline, a mountain town about 70 miles away. The listing was pulled before she could make an offer. So when it came back on the market a few months later, she and her husband, John Erickson, also 38, bought the place without considering what it would mean to move so far from Los Angeles.