North Korea just freed 3 American prisoners. Here are their stories.
Kim Hak-song, who worked for the Pyongyang University of Science and Technology, was detained May 6, 2017, according to North Korea's state news agency. Kim is one of three U.S. citizens being held by Kim Jon Un's regime. (Jason Aldag/The Washington Post)

Life as a prisoner in North Korea is nothing short of a nightmare.

Those who have survived describe harsh conditions: tiny prison cells, little food and water, little time outside. Detainees are often forced to confess and paraded in show trials, then sentenced to hard labor. “It was a 5-by-6-foot cell, and there were a couple of slats on the doors,” said Laura Ling, an American journalist detained in 2009, describing her cell in a magazine interview after her release. “There were no bars, so you couldn’t see out, and if they closed those slats, it just went completely dark. There was no way to communicate with the outside world.”

On Tuesday, President Trump announced that three Americans who've been been held in North Korea for years will be released today. Apparently, it's intended as a goodwill gesture ahead of the summit between Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. The announced release comes after days of rumors that the men had been transferred from a labor camp to a hotel near Pyongyang.

[What it’s like to be an American held in North Korea]

Here's a look at the prisoners and their stories.

Kim Hak-song

Kim Hak-song had worked for the Pyongyang University of Science and Technology and was detained in May on suspicion of “hostile acts” against North Korea. According to the university's chancellor, he had been doing agricultural development work with the school's agricultural farm.

Kim was born in China and studied in California. “He was a very diligent, hard-working man determined to help people in North Korea,” David Kim, a classmate, told CNN. “He went to Pyongyang to devote himself to the development of North Korea's agricultural technology so that the North can be self-sufficient with food.”

“A relevant institution is now conducting a detailed investigation into his crimes,” the official Korean Central News Agency reported at the time of his arrest.

Kim Sang-duk

Kim Sang-duk (who goes by his American name, Tony Kim) was detained in April as he waiting to fly out of Pyongyang airport. He'd been teaching a month-long class in international finance and management at Pyongyang University of Science and Technology (PUST) while serving on the faculty at Yanbian University of Science and Technology in China. The PUST chancellor said in a statement that Kim has been involved in some other activities, like volunteering at an orphanage, while in North Korea. He was in his 50s and had come to teach in the past at the school.

PUST and Yanbian University of Science and Technology are sister schools. It is the only private educational institution in North Korea and has more than 60 foreign faculty members, including from the United States, Canada, Britain and China, according to its website. “The mission of PUST is to pursue excellence in education, with an international outlook, so that its students are diligent in studies, innovative in research and upright in character, bringing illumination to the Korean people and the world,” it says.

Suki Kim, a Korean American author who taught at PUST for six months, wrote a book called “Without You There Is No Us,” describing the faculty members holding private prayer meetings and Bible study sessions.

Kim Dong-chul



Kim Dong-chul was accused of spying on the North Korean regime and sentenced to 10 years of hard labor in April 2016. In this photo, he is escorted to his trial on April 29, 2016, in Pyongyang, North Korea. (Kim Kwang Hyon/Associated Press)

Kim Dong-chul, a former Virginia resident, is a businessman. In an interview, he told CNN that he'd lived in the Chinese city of Yanji since 2001 and worked in the Rason-Sonbong special economic zone, just over the North Korean border. Kim ran a trade and hotel services company.

He was accused of spying on the regime and sentenced to 10 years of hard labor in April 2016.

Kim, 64, was born in South Korea and became a U.S. citizen in 1987. In the interview with CNN, he said that he was arrested in October 2015 while meeting with a former North Korean soldier. Pyongyang accused Kim of receiving a USB drive and documents containing some North Korea nuclear secrets. At a government-organized news conference, he apologized for trying to steal military secrets in collusion with South Koreans. (South Korea denies this.) He begged for mercy, and called his alleged acts “unpardonable.”

After being detained for 17 months in North Korea, University of Virginia student Otto Warmbier arrived home in Cincinnati on June 13. He has been in a coma for more than a year. (Anna Fifield/The Washington Post)

As my colleague Anna Fifield reported, such “ ‘confessions’ have become part of North Korea's playbook for detainees.” After their release, “several detainees have described being told what to say by their North Korean captors.”