It’s time to hold the CIA accountable. Gina Haspel’s hearing is the best place to start.


Gina Haspel, the nominee to become CIA director, leaves the office of Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) on Capitol Hill on Monday. (Manuel Balce Ceneta/AP)

Jay Rockefeller (D-W.Va.), a 30-year veteran of the Senate, served as Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee from 2007 to 2009. Daniel J. Jones, currently the president of the Penn Quarter Group, worked as an FBI analyst and later as a staffer on the Senate Intelligence Committee.

According to a newly declassified CIA disciplinary review (“the Morell review”), a Justice Department criminal investigation identified two CIA officers it considered to be “directly involved” in a 2005 decision to destroy interrogation videotapes depicting torture at a CIA detention site three years earlier. One of those officers is Gina Haspel, the Trump administration’s nominee to lead the CIA.

The review, which was conducted by then-Deputy Director Michael Morell, was publicly released last month. No doubt the agency’s management approved the release because it was thought to be helpful to the Senate confirmation of Haspel as the next CIA director. The review found “no fault with the performance with of Ms. Haspel,” and concluded she “acted appropriately” when, in late 2005, she drafted a CIA cable ordering the destruction of more than 90 videotapes the White House, the CIA director, and others wanted preserved. But given the agency’s long-standing inability to hold its officers accountable for misconduct, senators would be wise to question the credibility of the disciplinary review and, more importantly, Haspel’s suitability to lead the CIA and to receive the honor of a Senate confirmation.

It was not until December 2007 that the Senate Intelligence Committee would learn of the destruction of videotapes depicting the CIA’s so-called “enhanced interrogation techniques,” a euphemism for tactics our government has long considered as torture.

The committee launched an initial investigation that found the tapes would have depicted the round-the-clock torture of two detainees who were kept naked, placed in painful positions, deprived of sleep and subjected to waterboarding and other horrific acts. Based on these troubling findings, the committee opened a far more expansive investigation of the CIA program with an overwhelming 14-to-1 vote. While most of the resulting “Torture Report,” as it came to be known, remains classified, the declassified executive summary makes clear that many CIA officers raised objections about the torture program from its inception — including questioning the legality of the tactics. Other CIA officers rose through the ranks by defending, perpetuating and promoting a program the Senate found to be ineffective, mismanaged and consistently misrepresented.

Senators should ask exactly what kind of CIA officer was Haspel at this time. The recently declassified information on her background is not encouraging.

Haspel’s first day at the CIA’s counterterrorism center was September 11, 2001. She then held increasingly senior positions, including positions that placed her in supervision over aspects of the CIA rendition, detention, and interrogation programs.

Collectively, we served on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence for nearly two decades — one as both a member and chairman, the other as a staffer who led many of the committee’s investigations. Over the years, we came to see a serious, pervasive and corrosive accountability problem at the CIA.

For example, during the CIA detention and interrogation program, an agency officer responsible for the death of a detainee received no sanctions, but was instead recommended for a “cash award” for his “consistently superior work.” Later, during the Senate investigation into the program, CIA officers searched Intelligence Committee computers and, based on fabricated information, provided a criminal referral against committee staff to the Justice Department. No one at the CIA was ever held accountable.

Now, senators are asked to believe that Haspel — who apparently was a target of the Justice Department’s tapes investigation — was innocent of any wrongdoing because a CIA review says so?

In his 2015 book “The Great War of Our Time: The CIA’s Fight Against Terrorism,” Morell discusses the Haspel “disciplinary review” in detail. Morell explained that, though the Justice Department decided not to prosecute, it nonetheless found enough wrongdoing to recommend that then-CIA Director David H. Petraeus set up an “accountability board” for the officers involved. Morell boasted that, instead of establishing an accountability board as Petraeus had asked, he “elected to handle the assignment solo” and “break the news” of the disciplinary review to Haspel’s boss “over a drink.”

Morell’s subsequent review confirmed that Haspel was aware the White House and others objected to the destruction of the tapes, that she engaged in efforts to “press for” their destruction, and that she “drafted the cable” that ordered their destruction. Nevertheless, the agency found no reason to sanction Haspel, or her boss. Indeed, no one at the CIA was sanctioned for any infraction related to the tapes.

Haspel’s rise through the ranks of the Central Intelligence Agency is troubling. We need a strong and vibrant CIA that holds individuals accountable for misconduct and is committed to the rule of law. In our view, if the Senate confirms Haspel, it will be condoning, and ultimately perpetuating, a failed system of oversight that allows wrongdoing to be ignored. If the Senate is unwilling to hold CIA personnel accountable, who will?