Khamenei says Trump sent letter to Gulf allies making demands


Ayatollah Ali Khamenei addresses some students Wednesday, a day after President Trump announced that the United States is pulling out of the nuclear deal. (Iranian supreme leader's website/AFP)

The day after President Trump announced his intention to withdraw from the nuclear accord with Tehran, Iranian supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei took aim at America's Persian Gulf allies on Twitter, telling them that "the U.S. wants to own humiliated slaves."

The comments appeared to be directed at countries such as Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates — close allies of the Trump administration and, alongside Israel, the most vocal outside critics of the agreement Iran reached with the United States and five other nations in 2015.

In an English-language tweet on Wednesday, Khamenei suggested that Trump had written a letter to leaders of Gulf states “a few days ago” that demanded they do more in the region. “I spent $7 trillion and you must do something in return,” the Iranian leader claimed the letter stated.

A few days ago Trump wrote a letter to leaders of #PersianGulf states, which was revealed to us. He wrote: "I spent $7 trillion and you must do something in return." The U.S. wants to own humiliated slaves. — Khamenei.ir (@khamenei_ir) May 9, 2018

Khamanei had mentioned the alleged letter from Trump earlier Wednesday during an event at Farhangian University in Tehran.

“A couple of days ago, Trump wrote a letter to the leaders of Arab world. We have that letter,” Khamanei said. “In the letter, he says I have spent $7 trillion on you, you have to do [what I say]. You spent this money to rule over Iraq and Syria. You couldn’t. To hell with it. He says you should do it and says Iran 'should' do it too.”

It was not clear what letter the Iranian leader was referring to or whether Trump had in fact sent it.

The president has said publicly that Gulf allies should do more in the region and not rely on the United States as much as they do. Trump has also brought up the $7 trillion figure multiple times — saying in February, for example, that the United States had spent "$7 trillion in the Middle East," which he called "a mistake."

The dollar figure is inaccurate: Trump is thought to be referring to a study from Brown University that actually included future costs not only for the wars in Iraq and Syria but also in Afghanistan.

Last month, Trump publicly criticized Middle Eastern countries that relied on U.S. support as French President Emmanuel Macron visited Washington. “Countries that are in the area, some of which are immensely wealthy, would not be there except for the United States and, to a lesser extent, France,” Trump said then at a news conference at the White House.

“They wouldn't be there except for the United States,” he added. “They wouldn't last a week. We are protecting them. They have to now step up and pay for what is happening.”

Though Trump did not mention any countries specifically, it was widely assumed he was talking about the United Arab Emirates. Trump has called on Gulf allies to pick up the burden in the Syrian conflict as the United States winds down its military presence. During a phone call with Saudi King Salman in December, Trump asked Saudi Arabia for $4 billion for the effort in Syria.

Khamenei referred to Trump's comments late last month, calling them a "humiliation for Muslims" and showed how the “Muslims should stand firmly against the U.S. and other domineering powers’ bullying."

That the U.S. president shamelessly says, ‘without the U.S., heads of some Arab states cannot maintain themselves even for a week’, is a humiliation for Muslims. pic.twitter.com/2GtuQX3g7k — Khamenei.ir (@khamenei_ir) April 26, 2018

Trump's April remarks did stir some discomfort among Persian Gulf allies, some of whom argued that Trump's tone was disrespectful. Abdulkhaleq Abdulla, a well-known Emirati political commentator, was among those angered by the remarks. He retorted in a tweet Tuesday that his country and others will survive after Trump is gone.

Dear Mr @realDonaldTrump the Rich Arab Gulf States have been around well before you were born and well before the US was founded, rest assure they will be around for years to come well after you go and well after the US leaves if it wishes to leave. Please stop the insult. — Abdulkhaleq Abdulla (@Abdulkhaleq_UAE) April 25, 2018

The leaders of Saudi Arabia and the UAE have aggressively pursued close relations with Trump since he won the 2016 election, viewing his administration as a welcome change after President Barack Obama sought better ties with Iran. Both nations are at odds with Iran over a number of issues, including Tehran's deep involvement in the Syrian conflict and claims that Iran had backed rebels in Yemen.

After Trump announced his decision to withdraw from the Iran deal on Tuesday, Saudi Arabia's ambassador to Washington said that the kingdom "fully supports the measures taken" by the president, while the UAE's minister of state for foreign affairs said that Trump's decision "is the correct one.”

The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia fully supports the measures taken by @POTUS with regards to the JCPOA. we always had reservations with regards to sunset clauses, ballistic missiles program, and Iran’s support for terrorism in the region. — Khalid bin Salman خالد بن سلمان (@kbsalsaud) May 8, 2018

Iran’s rhetoric & aggressive regional actions were the background to a flawed deal. The veneer of Tehran’s compliance contradicted its bellicose policies. President Trump’s decision is the correct one. — د. أنور قرقاش (@AnwarGargash) May 8, 2018

Bijan Sabbagh contributed to this report

More on WorldViews

Trump’s remarks that Middle Eastern states ‘wouldn’t last a week’ without U.S. cause anger in the region

Trump claims the U.S. has spent $7 trillion in the Middle East. It hasn’t.