Police expect to find bodies of half a dozen girls in rural field after reopening cold case


Investigators huddle before traveling across a huge field to a dig site in Macomb Township, Mich., on Wednesday. (Todd McInturf/Detroit News via AP)

Police in Michigan are searching the woods for the body of a 12-year-old girl last seen in 1979 — and think they may find the bodies of four to six other girls who were reported missing there.

Kimberly King, who was reported missing in September 1979 while staying at her grandparents’ home, is the focus of the task force’s work after the investigation into her disappearance was reopened. Aerial images and photographs showed a crew digging Tuesday at the edge of a rural wooded field on the property of a vacant farm in Macomb Township, about an hour north of Detroit.

The search resumed Wednesday, with state and federal agents joining local law enforcement agencies.

Warren Police Commissioner Bill Dwyer told local reporters that the authorities have “probable cause to believe” King was buried in the area.

“We also believe that there’s maybe four to six other girls that have been reported missing that are buried there,” he said. “We certainly are convinced we have the right area. It’s just a sad type of situation.”

[A girl was found dead in a landfill 49 years ago. She has finally been identified.]

The remains of a 13-year-old girl who disappeared in 1986 were found in the area a decade ago, the Associated Press reported. Arthur Ream was convicted of first-degree murder in her killing and sentenced to life in prison. He was granted a temporary release from prison to lead police to her body. Before he was taken back to prison, he also drew a map of the site for authorities.

The investigation into King’s disappearance involved a recent interview with Ream, 68, in prison, the Detroit News reported. Dwyer said that Ream had recently failed a polygraph exam, and he told Reuters that information from Ream and other people led them to believe that they’d find four to six other bodies in the area. The police did not release the girls’ names but said they are believed to have been 12 to 17 years old when they disappeared, in the late 1970s and early 1980s.

The Warren Police Department is leading a task force that includes the FBI, Michigan State Police and the Macomb County Sheriff’s Office.



Authorities work in a rural wooded area in southeastern Michigan, searching for the remains of a 12-year-old girl last seen in 1979. (Paul Sancya/AP)

Read more:

Hawaii residents returned briefly to a lava-stricken neighborhood. The destruction was ‘surreal.’

‘My dad’s the mayor!’: Leaked video shows Denver official’s son cursing at officer during stop

Manhattan district attorney to investigate abuse allegations against Eric Schneiderman