Solo: A Star Wars Story praised by first to see it
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Pick a camera, any camera - the cast on the Solo red carpet

The first reactions to the new Star Wars film Solo have come out, after its premiere in the US.

And the verdict? While some said it was clunky in parts, most loved it - describing the movie as fun, epic and "a blast".

There was particular praise for Fleabag star Phoebe Waller-Bridge, in her role as droid L3-37.

Solo is about the early years of the sci-fi saga's Han Solo, played by Harrison Ford in the original films.

Image copyright Lucasfilm Image caption The "bromance" between Han and Chewie is said to be a key part of the film

Alden Ehrenreich takes over the controls of the Millennium Falcon in the new spin-off, heading up a cast that also includes Donald Glover, Emilia Clarke, Thandie Newton and Woody Harrelson.

The film, directed by Ron Howard after the original directors left mid-production, sees Solo beginning his pilot training and seeking a spaceship of his own.

'Makes your heart happy'

Writer and producer Adam Goldberg says it "delivers in every way".

"Funny, suspenseful, emotional, a truly epic origin story," he raves. "If this film doesn't make your heart happy, then just give up on watching movies."

Skip Twitter post by @adamfgoldberg Yes, I live and breathe @starwars. I know with each new one, I say it’s the greatest one ever. But #Solo delivers in every way. Funny, suspenseful, emotional, a truly epic origin story. If this film doesn’t make your heart happy, then just give up on watching movies. #kesselrun — Adam F. Goldberg (@adamfgoldberg) May 11, 2018 Report

Image copyright BBC/Lucasfilm Image caption Phoebe Waller-Bridge as she usually looks... and as a droid

Perri Nemiroff of Collider said there was "fun to be had", praising Donald Glover and Waller-Bridge, but admitted she was hoping for "more energy and depth" from the film.

Skip Twitter post by @PNemiroff There’s some fun to be had with #SoloAStarWarsStory. Ehrenreich was solid and really enjoyed Glover and Waller-Bridge as L3, but not convinced we needed a young Han Solo movie. Was really hoping for higher stakes, more energy and depth. — Perri Nemiroff (@PNemiroff) May 11, 2018 Report

Yahoo Entertainment senior correspondent Kevin Polowy also had a lot of time for Waller-Bridge, saying L3 might be his favourite new character.

He described it as "a straight intergalactic heist movie", with Ehrenreich "super impressive as Han".

Skip Twitter post by @djkevlar #SoloAStarWarsStory is reaaaaalllly good. Fun as hell. It’s a straight intergalactic heist movie, kind of refreshing to see a Star Wars movie w/o a Death Star or the rebellion’s fate at stake. Alden Ehrenreich is super impressive as Han, but L3 might be my favorite new character. — Kevin Polowy (@djkevlar) May 11, 2018 Report

David Daniel said it "hits the beats it needs to, provides plenty of flying and fighting action, and especially delivers on the Han-Chewie relationship".

He adds that Glover is "as cool as expected" and that Waller-Bridge is "an absolute delight".

Skip Twitter post by @CNNLADavid #SoloAStarWarsStory hits the beats it needs to, provides plenty of flying and fighting action, and especially delivers on the Han-Chewie relationship. Glover is exactly as cool as expected, and Phoebe Waller-Bridge is an absolute delight. — David Daniel (@CNNLADavid) May 11, 2018 Report

Image copyright Reuters Image caption Star Wars star Mark Hamill attended with his wife

Wendy Lee Szany was less enthused - saying there were "great moments but some were a bit too on the nose". She especially likes "the Chewie/Han bromance".

Skip Twitter post by @WendyLeeSzany Solo: A Star Wars Story has a light tone and has some great action sequences. There were great moments but some were a bit too on the nose for me. The Chewie/Han bromance is the thing to watch for. — Wendy Lee Szany (@WendyLeeSzany) May 11, 2018 Report

Joel Meares said Solo is "kinda a blast", adding that Glover was "perfect as expected" and Ehrenreich "has swagger to match, and spare". And Waller-Bridge? She's an "utter scene stealer".

"Foot heavy on the nostalgia pedal, bit of a rough opening, but could not wipe smirk off my face for most of it," he said.

Jacki Jing said she was "completely floored" by Solo, saying it had her on the edge of her seat.

Skip Twitter post by @JackiJing Got out of #SoloAStarWarsStory and I’m completely floored. This movie seriously holds up! I was on the edge of my seat and had so much fun watching it! Interviewing the stars of the film tomorrow, cannot wait ❣️ pic.twitter.com/7GAr6h2c8q — Jacki Jing (@JackiJing) May 11, 2018 Report

Film blogger John Campea said Solo was "pure wonderful adventure" and a "true summer adventure".

"Not best film of the year or anything, but prepare to have a really good time," he said.

Skip Twitter post by @johncampea Solo: pure wonderful adventure. Alden IS Han. Glover IS Lando. Great palet cleanser after heavier TLJ and Rogue One. A true summer adventure. Not best film of the year or anything, but prepare to have a really good time. — John Campea (@johncampea) May 11, 2018 Report

Image copyright Reuters Image caption The Millennium Falcon made an appearance on the red carpet

The word "fun" is used by Mike Ryan, senior entertainment writer at Uproxx, too.

Solo can be "hit and miss clunky", but adds: "Once Donald Glover's Lando shows up (who is legit fantastic) and the Kessel Run heist plot kicks in, it's a whole lot of fun."

And he predicts there'll be a Solo franchise. "It's not really hiding the fact it's setting up more Han Solo movies," he adds.

Skip Twitter post by @mikeryan The first act of SOLO: A STAR WARS STORY can be hit and miss clunky. But once Donald Glover's Lando shows up (who is legit fantastic) and the Kessel Run heist plot kicks in, it's a whole lot of fun. (And those who've always wanted a Han and Chewbacca shower scene are in luck.) — Mike Ryan (@mikeryan) May 11, 2018 Report

The premiere took place in Los Angeles on Thursday night. As well as the film's stars, the Millennium Falcon also appeared on the red carpet.

Solo: A Star Wars Story is released in the UK on 23 May. It's also going to be screened during the Cannes Film Festival.

Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.