The Realities Of Managing A Pop Star’s International Tour
Utah Saints perform on stage, Lisbon , Portugal, Martyn Goodacre via Getty Images

Andy Inglis’s first taste of life as a Tour Manager came early. It was something of a baptism of fire. “Back in 1991, when I was 18, I was Assistant Tour Manager for Utah Saints. I didn’t have a clue what I was doing, broke my ankle on the first day, and was sent home after about ten shows because I couldn’t walk,” he admits. Tour Managing took a backseat for a while after that, but not his dedication to music and his desire to be part of the industry. In the next twenty-five years, he helped create and co-owned a music venue, the Luminaire in Kilburn; he worked as promoter, festival organiser, label manager and artist manager (he currently manages Novo Amor, Tom Rogerson, Ed Tullett, John Uren and Hailaker); and given his vast experience, he also began to lecturer on the music industry, providing rookies with invaluable insights into the trade, like not breaking your ankle on the first day. One of the first myth’s he’s quick to dispel is that being a TM for a successful pop or rock act is glamorous, a chance to bask in some vicarious limelight. Andy’s experiences of life on the road conjure up not glamour, but other words instead; ‘relentless’ for one, ‘gruelling’ for another. But sure, there is glitter along the way, an intense sense of camaraderie, moments both euphoric and surreal, a rich store of memories to reflect on in your dotage – providing the job doesn’t kill you first. “Not everyone is built for the road,” he says. “You need patience, diligence, diplomacy, empathy, a head for logistics, the ability to sleep anywhere. I like music, travelling, helping people and customer service. That’s Tour Management.”

Jena Ardell via Getty Images

A cursory glance at Andy’s daily itinerary makes the average world leader look like a slacker. It’s a wonder he doesn’t have a nervous breakdown within a week. “It takes about four,” he jokes. “What you have to understand is that as the TM, you’re the go-to man for almost everything on the road, so I am frequently stopped and interrupted. That’s fine, it’s my job to be the guy to answer questions, though it is also my job to be available when I am needed, so regardless of what I am in the middle of, I can be stopped and asked a question of. I draw a line, though, at bedtime, when I put my phone on Airplane mode until I wake.” Even then, he might be lucky to get more than four or five hours sleep. Depending on the size of the crew on the tour, it’s also Andy’s job to supervise the merchandise stall, help load and unload the equipment, do his share of the driving and make sure the artist or band are properly taken care of and prepared for each gig, whether it’s pasting up set lists or making sure there are towels and water on stage. And that’s before we even get to the financial aspects of the job. Often he’ll be kept up to the early hours of the morning going through a blizzard of receipts, sorting out booking fees, arranging flights or van rentals, or dealing with any number of other logistical requirements to keep the show on the road. Modern technology does provide its advantages, though. “These days, wire transfers are pretty fast. I’ve used them to pay band and crew when a tour is over, make transfers to bus companies, or to Rock-It Cargo for sorting freighting, that kind of thing.” And there’s always the worldwide web to be thankful for. “I once planned a US tour in 1991 without the internet. I can’t work out how it was possible, looking back at it.”

Laura Fanning / EyeEm via Getty Images