What To Know About The Iran Nuclear Deal
President Donald Trump announced on Tuesday that the U.S. will withdraw from the international nuclear accord with Iran, the landmark 2015 agreement curbing Iran’s nuclear development program in return for sanctions relief.

By ending America’s participation in the deal, Trump fulfills a major campaign promise. But the decision could set the stage for an international political crisis and uncertainty over the future of Iran’s nuclear program.

Here’s what you need to know about the agreement:

The Deal

Also known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, the deal is the result of a decade of international negotiations to curb Tehran’s nuclear ambitions.

Although Iran is banned from possessing nuclear weapons as a state party of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, it failed to disclose the existence of its uranium-enrichment program for 18 years, causing alarm when its clandestine program was revealed in 2003.

Negotiators from Iran and six other world powers, including the United Nations Security Council’s five permanent members and Germany, reached the historic agreement on July 14, 2015. It placed strict limits on Tehran’s nuclear program that were set to last for more than a decade.

The United Nations Security Council endorsed the deal on July 20, 2015, officially agreeing to “terminate” U.N. sanctions on Iran.

Iranian President Hassan Rouhani attends a meeting with Muslim leaders and scholars in Hyderabad, India, February 15, 2018. (Danish Siddiqui / Reuters) More

The JCPOA was a “once in a lifetime opportunity,” then-President Barack Obama said at the time it was agreed. “This is our best bet by far to make sure Iran doesn’t get a nuclear weapon,” Obama added. Tehran had always maintained that its nuclear development was only intended for energy and other peaceful purposes, but fears the Islamic Republic was working on developing a nuclear bomb had been rising in the West.

Critics of the agreement, including Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, argued that the deal at its core was not tough enough on Iran.

“Not a single nuclear facility is shut down, including the underground facilities that [Iran builds] illicitly,” Netanyahu said in 2015. “Thousands of centrifuges will keep spinning, enriching uranium. That’s a very bad deal.”

Trump has echoed these concerns, repeatedly calling it “the worst deal ever.”

(KEVIN LAMARQUE via Getty Images) More

What It Does

At its most basic level, the deal meant Iran agreed to put heavy restrictions on its nuclear program in exchange for world powers lifting economic sanctions that target the country. The deal lasts until 2030, with some restrictions expiring before then and other inspection measures extending years beyond that date.