George Zimmerman Charged with Stalking for Allegedly Threatening Investigator for Trayvon Martin Documentary
George Zimmerman, the Florida man who fatally shot unarmed African American teenager Trayvon Martin in 2012, is accused of threatening an investigator hired to help work on a documentary on Martin’s life.

According to a charging affidavit from the Seminole County Sheriff’s office obtained by PEOPLE, Zimmerman repeatedly contacted a private investigator with threatening and menacing messages. He allegedly phoned the alleged victim 55 times, left 36 voicemails, texted 67 times and sent 27 emails in a nine-day span.

In one message, Zimmerman allegedly said that the investigator was “on his way to the inside of a gator,” according to the Seminole County Sheriff’s Office.

The interactions began in September 2017, according to the affidavit. The private investigator, Dennis Warren, was hired by a production company that was creating a documentary on Trayvon Martin’s life. Martin was 17 years old when he was killed.

Warren reached out to Zimmerman on September 21 and explained that a producer would like to speak to him about participating in the documentary. According to the affidavit, this was the only contact that Warren had with Zimmerman.

The affidavit alleges that Zimmerman later texted the producer of the production company. “Dennis is a [expletive] who bothered my uncle in his home,” he allegedly wrote, “Local or former law officer, he’s well on his way to the inside of a gator as well. 10-4?”

In December, Warren allegedly started receiving direct messages from Zimmerman. Within a two-hour period on Dec. 16, the affidavit states, the alleged victim received 21 phone calls, 38 text messages and seven voicemails. The texts allegedly contained threats and profanity. “Answer your phone [expletive],” read one, according to the affidavit, which alleges that another ominously threatened, “I’ll see you before you realize it.”

Trayvon Martin More

• Want to keep up with the latest crime coverage? Click here to get breaking crime news, ongoing trial coverage and details of intriguing unsolved cases in the True Crime Newsletter.

A sheriff’s deputy met with Warren and suggested that he text Zimmerman and ask him to stop contacting him. The affidavit alleges that Zimmerman immediately replied, “No!” followed by, “Text me again. I’ll show up at your home you [expletive].”