Schwarzenegger: 'Scott Pruitt is stuck in the polluting past' on car emission standards
With Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt poised to roll back Obama-era emission targets for cars and revoke California’s even stricter standards, Arnold Schwarzenegger, the state’s former Republican governor, is crying foul.

“Scott Pruitt is stuck in the polluting past, and California is showing the way to a cleaner, profitable future — we are ahead of the rest of the nation in economic growth and in lowering emissions,” Schwarzenegger told Yahoo News in an email on Monday. “In the United States, we have a long history of instituting emissions standards to clean our air that goes back to when Richard Nixon was president and Ronald Reagan was governor of California. Those aren’t the most liberal guys around, let me remind you.”

Gov. Jerry Brown, Schwarzenegger’s successor, announced on May 1 that California is leading an 18-state coalition to sue the EPA in defense of the clean-car rules. The lawsuit alleges that the EPA “acted arbitrarily and capriciously, failed to follow its own regulations and violated the Clean Air Act.”

Under the Clean Air Act, California has the authority to set its own standards for vehicle emissions as long as they aren’t weaker than the federal standards, but the state is required to have a waiver from the EPA. That arrangement is predicated on the fact that, since the 1950s, California has set its own emission standards. Section 177 of the Clean Air Act allows other states to follow California’s standards instead of the federal requirements.

Schwarzenegger continued: “We also have a long history of the federal government respecting California’s right, as a state, to regulate our own air. When I was governor, the EPA thought they could stop us, and we won. The EPA even tried to claim that greenhouse gases were not a pollutant, and we took them all the way to the Supreme Court and we won that. Mr. Pruitt, I can assure you that California, and those who believe in a cleaner future, will win again.”

Arnold Schwarzenegger, right, has been harshly critical of EPA chief Scott Pruitt. (Yahoo News photo Illustration; photos: AP, Getty) More

President Trump’s nomination of Pruitt as EPA chief elicited widespread condemnation from scientists and environmentalists, in large part because of his climate-change denial and close ties to the fossil fuel industry as attorney general of Oklahoma. Although support of Pruitt from conservatives has wavered amid allegations of extravagant spending and other ethics violations, the EPA chief has made it clear during congressional testimony late last month that he intends to fulfill Trump’s agenda of deregulation, including dismantling vehicle emission targets.

Luke Tonachel, director of the Natural Resources Defense Council’s clean vehicles and fuels project, said Pruitt’s decision will only benefit oil and gas companies.

“It’s bad for the automakers because of the uncertainty it creates. It’s bad for consumers because it will cost them more money at the pump. And it’s bad for public health because it will increase pollution,” Tonachel said.

The standards Pruitt is targeting were enacted by the Obama administration in 2010. The EPA, the Department of Transportation’s National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and the California Air Resources Board established a national program of greenhouse gas emission standards for 2012-2025 vehicle models. The idea was to simplify automobile manufacturing by providing a single target while reducing air pollution. Based on extensive research, the EPA and CARB last year reaffirmed that these standards were appropriate.

Sen. Tom Carper, D-Del., ranking member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, got his hands on a draft of Pruitt’s new proposed regulations and, in a May 1 letter to Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao and Pruitt, urged them to abandon the “extreme and legally questionable” plan.

“Such a proposal, if finalized, would harm U.S. national and economic security, undermine efforts to combat global warming pollution, create regulatory and manufacturing uncertainty for the automobile industry and unnecessary litigation, increase the amount of gasoline consumers would have to buy and runs counter to statements that both of you have made to Members of Congress,” Carper wrote in his letter.