Bongino Applauds Trump for Pulling Out of 'Crap' Iran Deal: Obama Got 'Played'
North Korea Releases 3 Americans: Hegseth Says Trump's 'Strength Approach' Is Forcing Change

Dan Bongino saluted President Trump's decision to pull the United States out of the Iran nuclear agreement.

Trump on Wednesday called the deal defective and declared that "America will not be held to nuclear blackmail."

The Iran Deal is defective at its core. If we do nothing, we know what will happen. In just a short time, the world’s leading state sponsor of terror will be on the cusp of acquiring the world’s most dangerous weapons.... pic.twitter.com/58qwBLzxIH — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 8, 2018

The 2015 deal struck by the U.S., Iran and world powers lifted most U.S. and international sanctions against the country. In return, Iran agreed to restrictions on its nuclear program and rigorous inspections.

Bongino, an NRATV contributor, argued that it was never a fair deal in the first place, since it did not effectively restrain Iran's nuclear activities.

"This was never a negotiation. It was a manipulation. The Iranians played the Obama administration for fools," Bongino said on "Hannity" on Tuesday.

He said that the "rigorous inspections" were ineffective, as the Iranians prevented inspectors from examining military installations for nuclear materials or the production of nuclear weapons.

"Where the heck do you think they're going to produce a nuclear weapon? The local Walmart? Of course they're going to do it in the military installations," Bongino said. "This is common sense. This was never a deal. This was Obama getting played. The Iranians never had any intention of sticking to this deal."

"And I applaud President Trump for throwing this crap deal out the window."

'So Misguided': Obama Criticizes Trump Decision to Exit Iran Nuclear Deal

Bolton: Pulling Out of Iran Deal 'Got Back to Real Objective' of Stopping Iran's Nuclear Ambitions

Retired Delta Force General: Trump Ditching Iran Deal a 'Sterling Example of Int'l Leadership'