North Korea Releases 3 Americans: Hegseth Says Trump's 'Strength Approach' Is Forcing Change
Vet Wounded by Iranian IED Salutes Trump for Pulling Out of Iran Deal

Another California City Joins Trump Admin in Opposing State's Sanctuary Law

North Korea released three American prisoners Wednesday, handing them over to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.

President Trump applauded the development and said he will personally greet the men at Andrews Air Force Base at 2:00am ET Thursday.

I am pleased to inform you that Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is in the air and on his way back from North Korea with the 3 wonderful gentlemen that everyone is looking so forward to meeting. They seem to be in good health. Also, good meeting with Kim Jong Un. Date & Place set. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 9, 2018

Secretary Pompeo and his “guests” will be landing at Andrews Air Force Base at 2:00 A.M. in the morning. I will be there to greet them. Very exciting! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 9, 2018

The "Fox & Friends" hosts reacted to the historic moment, with Pete Hegseth asking what former President Barack Obama, John Kerry and other so-called foreign policy experts are thinking this morning.

"What are they saying today as this aggressive approach, this strength approach, this brinkmanship, actually forces a change in something that's been intractable for 20 years? Here we are," he said.

The trio doubted, however, that the mainstream media will devote heavy coverage to the news, likely opting for reports on the Mueller probe and Stormy Daniels.

Fox News reported:

Kim Dong Chul, a South Korea-born U.S. citizen and former Virginia resident, was sentenced in April 2016 to 10 years in prison with hard labor after being convicted of espionage. He reportedly ran a trade and hotel service company in Rason, a special economic zone on North Korea's border with Russia. Tony Kim was detained at Pyongyang's airport in April 2017 and accused of unspecified "hostile acts" against the regime. He taught accounting at the Pyongyang University of Science and Technology. Kim Hak Song, an ethnic Korean born in China, was detained in May 2017 for "hostile acts." He worked in agricultural development at an experimental farm run by the Pyongyang University of Science and Technology, which was founded in 2010 with donations from Christian groups.

Watch the breaking news report above.

'So Misguided': Obama Criticizes Trump Decision to Exit Iran Nuclear Deal

Bolton: Pulling Out of Iran Deal 'Got Back to Real Objective' of Stopping Iran's Nuclear Ambitions

Retired Delta Force General: Trump Ditching Iran Deal a 'Sterling Example of Int'l Leadership'