Rice on North Korea Progress: Have to Give Trump Credit for 'Turning Up the Heat' on China
Hannity: Trump's Plan in North Korea Showing 'Significant Progress That Is Great for the World'

Former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice offered President Trump pieces of advice Tuesday for his meeting with Kim Jong Un.

Rice gave current Secretary of State Mike Pompeo credit for planning the summit "very carefully," adding that North Korea will "exploit any loophole."

She said credit needs to be given to the Trump administration for "having turned up the heat" on China and vowing that military force would be used to end the North Korean nuclear threat, if needed.

Rice advised Trump not to negotiate any details with Kim during their meeting, and added that other countries like Japan and South Korea also have interest in the summit and its potential outcomes.

"Really recognize that others are at stake," she said, adding that Pyongyang has a history of entering agreements and then breaking their promises.

Second, she recommended that Trump not be anxious about moving American military forces on the Korean Peninsula.

She also urged the president not to forget the true nature of Kim's regime, labeling it as "brutal."

"Human rights violations, a death camp for its own citizens. Don't forget the nature of the regime," she said.

Rice also downplayed the importance of where the meeting will be held, as there have been discussions of holding it near the Korean Demilitarized Zone.

"It just has to be very well-prepared," she said.

The president tweeted that the planning for his meeting with Kim is "going very well" after he spoke with South Korean President Moon Jae-in on Saturday.

In a historic summit, Moon and Kim met Friday and vowed to denuclearize the Korean Peninsula.

Just had a long and very good talk with President Moon of South Korea. Things are going very well, time and location of meeting with North Korea is being set. Also spoke to Prime Minister Abe of Japan to inform him of the ongoing negotiations. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 28, 2018

Boothe: Trump 'Literally' Making History on North Korea While Media Focuses on Stormy, Russia

Netanyahu Says Israel 'Would Love to Have' Trump Attend Jerusalem Embassy Opening

'Fully Fixed or Fully Nixed': Netanyahu Says He Trusts Trump to 'Do the Right Thing' on Iran Deal