Tomi Lahren to Conservatives, Trump Supporters: 'Don't Attach Yourself to Kanye'
Tomi Lahren: Trump Having 'Amazing Diplomatic Victories' Despite Being Labeled 'Incapable'

Conservatives, Trump supporters, and free thinkers: Please do not attach yourselves to Kanye West. It will backfire.

Mark my words. It. WILL. backfire.

It’s time for Final Thoughts.

I’ve been skeptical of Kanye's “awakening” from the beginning. But I mostly kept my mouth shut, because I was cautiously optimistic.

It’s certainly true he always marches to the beat of his own drum. And for that, I give him credit.

He’s unconventional, and a loose cannon. And if he opens eyes and minds of a demographic largely unaware of the merits of conservatism, independent thought and support for our president - wonderful.

But this president did not win based on the whims of the celebrity elite. He won because he focused on the average American. So do NOT make Kanye - or any celebrity - a messiah.

Just look at his TMZ interview on Tuesday - it was nothing short of disastrous.

And what about this ridiculous theory…

No Kanye, slavery was not a choice. That's absurd. I’m sorry, but is that really the kind of messenger we want for the movement?

Maybe I’m wrong, but I think Kanye’s change of heart has little to do with Trump, politics, or free thought - and a heck of a lot more to do with Kanye promoting Kanye - as usual.

This is a man who will do and say anything to be the center of attention. Remember this?

Or how about this…

And this doozy…

Look, Kanye is a businessman. And he knows how to get people talking - about him - better than anyone else. It’s smart, on his part.

So let me get inside Kanye’s head for a minute…

If I’m planning to drop a single in a week, what better way to promote it than nab all the headlines and get the whole world talking - about me. What is the most outrageous thing I could say to shock everyone? Oh, right: Come out in support of Donald Trump. That’ll do it!

Maybe I’m wrong. Maybe his love of Trump and conservative thought is genuine. But to be honest, who cares? Are we going to put our eggs in Kanye West’s basket?

What happens when he flips the script next week, or next month, in a bid to get more attention? Then what? We look like fools for appointing him our cultural messiah.

Don’t fall for it.

Those are my Final Thoughts. Feel free to disagree. From LA, God Bless and take care.

Tomi Lahren on Michelle Wolf's Performance: 'Trump Didn’t Create Leftist Media’s Ugly Side, He Just Exposed It'