Tomi Lahren Rips Joe Biden, Keith Ellison: 'Stacking the Victim Card Deck'
'They Don't Want Black Folks Voting': Biden Rips GOP on Voter ID, Trump's 'Lie' on 'Fraud'

'Women Are Dying Because We're Losing': MN Dem Ellison Links GOP Election Wins to Maternal Mortality

What do Democrats do when they have no platform, no policies, no agenda … and no shame? They make stuff up and throw down the victim card – one of the few they have left in the deck.

It’s time for Final Thoughts.

The Democrats are scared, folks. President Trump’s tax cuts are allowing hard-working Americans to keep more of what they earn. And because Democrats would rather win elections than see Americans thrive, they feel threatened.

So how do they respond? They send their best and brightest to a “progressive change” conference to make things up, and weave the victimhood web. Here’s the deputy chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Keith Ellison, talking about maternal mortality rates:

'Women Are Dying Because We're Losing': MN Dem Ellison Links GOP Election Wins to Maternal Mortalityhttps://t.co/0iPWd9zABw — FoxNewsInsider (@FoxNewsInsider) April 16, 2018

Are you kidding me? Is this how you plan to win elections, Mr. Ellison? By blaming the Republican Party and President Trump for the rate of pregnancy-related deaths among women? That’s so outrageous, I doubt even the Democrats believe it.

But it’s not just Keith Ellison stacking the victim card deck. Former Vice President Joe Biden also jumped in, and offered up this little nugget:

'They Don't Want Black Folks Voting': Biden Rips GOP on Voter ID, Trump's 'Lie' on 'Fraud'https://t.co/EpitdT3HuE — FoxNewsInsider (@FoxNewsInsider) April 15, 2018

"Republicans don't want working-class people voting. They don't want black folks voting.”

I don’t know what’s worse: What Biden said, or the fact that some Americans will actually believe what he said. In the meantime, Mr. Biden, let me clear up something for you.

Republicans want voter ID laws because elections should be fair and square. And if we are going to lose elections to people like you, it shouldn’t be due to voter fraud.

I realize the Democratic Party has a love affair with illegal immigration. But your sanctuary doesn’t extend to the voting booth, sorry.

From Ellison to Biden and everywhere in between, we’ve got Democratic leaders counting on the victim card not just this fall, but also in 2020. Instead of advocating for policies and positions that help Americans help themselves, they parade the “poor you” talking points at conferences and on mainstream news. It’s sick, and disheartening.

This country wasn’t founded on handouts, “poor me” thought, or patronization. It was founded on liberty - and the PURSUIT of happiness. It’s troubling the Democrats have largely forgotten both.

Identity politics, victimology, and pandering didn’t work in 2016. And I pray we are strong and smart enough to reject it again this fall, in 2020 - and in all elections to come.

Those are my Final Thoughts. Feel free to disagree. From LA, God Bless and Take Care.

'Remember, It's America First': Tomi Lahren Says Trump Should Pull Out of Syria Entirely

Tomi Lahren on Jay-Z's Trump Criticism: 'The President Is Winning and You Can't Stand It'