'So Misguided': Obama Criticizes Trump Decision to Exit Iran Nuclear Deal
Trump Announces Exit From Iran Deal: 'America Will Not Be Held Hostage to Nuclear Blackmail'

'Iran Has Been Lying': Oliver North Says Trump Should Exit Iran Nuclear Deal

Former President Barack Obama criticized President Donald Trump for effectively "turning our back on America's closest allies" by removing the United States from the Iran nuclear deal.

In a lengthy post on social media, Obama reacted to his successor's decision to all but nullify what his own administration had worked to achieve with Tehran.

Walking away from the JCPOA turns our back on America’s closest allies, and an agreement that our country’s leading diplomats, scientists, and intelligence professionals negotiated," Obama wrote.

"In a democracy, there will always be changes in policies and priorities from one Administration to the next, but the consistent flouting of agreements that our country is a party to risks eroding America’s credibility, and puts us at odds with the world’s major powers."

The British, French and Germans unsuccessfully pressured Trump to remain in the deal, along with Russia and China. However, the Israelis remain steadfast in support of Trump's decision.

Obama said there has not been an "Iranian violation" of the terms of the deal. He said that without the Iran deal, Trump presents America with a "losing choice" between a nuclear-armed Iran and a new war in the Middle East.

In the run-up to Trump's decision, Obama's former chief diplomat, John F. Kerry reportedly got in contact with Iranian officials in hopes of saving the deal.

Trump responded with a blistering criticism of Kerry, remarking at an NRA convention that he never "walked away" from the deal except to participate in a bicycle race that left him with a broken leg.

The United States does not need John Kerry’s possibly illegal Shadow Diplomacy on the very badly negotiated Iran Deal. He was the one that created this MESS in the first place! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 7, 2018

Obama added that the Iran deal should've been Trump's model for his upcoming summit with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un, during which he will likely attempt to keep Pyongyang from continuing their nuclear ambitions.

Watch more above from "Shepard Smith Reporting."

'Worse Than Weiner': Tucker Flags 2013 Trump Tweet After NY AG Accused of Violent Abuse of Women

'For 8 Years, Enemies Were Treated as Friends': Gorka Says Iran Deal Must Be Killed