'Worse Than Weiner': Tucker Flags 2013 Trump Tweet After NY AG Accused of Violent Abuse of Women
'How Can He Constitutionally Investigate No Crime?': DiGenova Rips 'Illegitimate' Mueller Probe

WATCH: Keith Ellison Celebrates 'May Day' With 'I Don't Believe in Borders' Shirt

UPDATE: Attorney General Eric Schneiderman announced his resignation late Monday.

A fixture in New York State Democratic politics is being accused of violence against four women, and President Donald Trump may have foreshadowed the allegations in a five-year-old tweet, Tucker Carlson said.

Carlson said that, if the allegations pan out, Trump would be so prescient he should be consulted for winning lottery numbers.

New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman was accused Monday of physical abuse and controlling behavior during romantic relationships or encounters according to the New Yorker magazine.

Schneiderman has long been considered to covet the governor's office, currently held by Andrew Cuomo (D).

As FoxNews.com reported:

Schneiderman, long a pillar of New York's Democratic establishment, has cast himself as a supporter of the #MeToo movement after Ronan Farrow uncovered a long list of rape and sexual harassment accusations against the now-disgraced Hollywood titan Harvey Weinstein. Two of the politician's accusers, Michelle Manning Barish and Tanya Selvaratnam, spoke to the magazine on the record to document claims that Schneiderman nonconsensually hit and choked them. Two other women made similar accusations against him, but declined to be identified.

As Carlson noted, in the aftermath of former Rep. Anthony Weiner's (D-N.Y.) and Gov. Eliot Spitzer's (D-N.Y.) departures, Trump hinted that Schneiderman could be the next to be embroiled in a sex scandal.

Weiner is gone, Spitzer is gone - next will be lightweight A.G. Eric Schneiderman. Is he a crook? Wait and see, worse than Spitzer or Weiner — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 11, 2013

Weiner resigned after messaging obscene images of himself to other women, and Spitzer was found to be "Client 9" on a callgirl service in the Tri-State area.

"Weiner is gone, Spitzer is gone - next will be lightweight A.G. Eric Schneiderman. Is he a crook? Wait and see, worse than Spitzer or Weiner."

Statement from Eric T. Schneiderman: "In the privacy of intimate relationships, I have engaged in role-playing and other consensual sexual activity. I have not assaulted anyone. I have never engaged in non-consensual sex, which is a line I would not cross." — Eric T. Schneiderman (@Schneiderman) May 7, 2018

Carlson called the allegations combined with the tweet "one of those ironies that could only happen in 2013."

He pointed out how Democrats have blasted Trump for not closely aligning himself with the #MeToo movement which fights mistreatment of women, while it may be the president who saw a #MeToo scandal coming against one of their party's own.

5. Trump and Schneiderman have had a long running feud. pic.twitter.com/xYNNI9kZkK — Yashar Ali (@yashar) May 7, 2018

Schneiderman allegedly threatened to kill at least two of the women, and also threatened to tap an alleged victim's phone as retribution.

"Either he's amazingly lucky on Twitter, or you should ask the president what numbers to pick in the Lotto tomorrow," Carlson said.

Sanders Dismisses 'Ridiculous' Rumor That Melania Trump Does Not Live in White House

D'Souza: Rosie Broke Law 5 Times With Donations to Dems, Tried to 'Cover Her Tracks'