'For 8 Years, Enemies Were Treated as Friends': Gorka Says Iran Deal Must Be Killed
'Iran Has Been Lying': Oliver North Says Trump Should Exit Iran Nuclear Deal

Former White House adviser Dr. Sebastian Gorka said that the Iran nuclear deal "has to be killed," and that President Trump has wanted to do so "for two years."

The president is set to announce his decision on the deal ahead of his May 12 deadline. Fox News confirmed Tuesday that Trump will withdraw the U.S. from the deal.

I will be announcing my decision on the Iran Deal tomorrow from the White House at 2:00pm. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 7, 2018

The leaders of Germany and France, in recent visits to the White House, lobbied Trump not to withdraw from the agreement.

"For eight years our enemies were treated as friends -- like Iran, given boatloads of cash -- and our friends, like Israel, were treated like enemies," Gorka said on "Hannity."

He called the agreement, one that Trump has repeatedly expressed desire to exit, "bad for America, bad for the world" and said that "it's bad for our friends."

"The Iran deal has to be killed," he said.

Sean Hannity said that the reported "shadow diplomacy" in which John Kerry is engaging is "despicable and disgusting."

The former secretary of state is under fire over a report that claims he sat down twice in recent months with Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif to strategize in saving the deal.

President Trump on Monday said that the deal was "very badly negotiated" and blasted Kerry's reported efforts.

The United States does not need John Kerry’s possibly illegal Shadow Diplomacy on the very badly negotiated Iran Deal. He was the one that created this MESS in the first place! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 7, 2018

Watch more above.

'The Jane Fonda of the Middle East’: 'Outnumbered' Rips John Kerry's 'Shadow Diplomacy' to Save Iran Deal

'This Is Real Collusion': Gorka Blasts Kerry for Reported 'Shadow Diplomacy' to Save Iran Deal

UK Foreign Secretary Before Meeting With Pence: Fix Iran Deal, Do Not Pull Out