Gina Haspel, Trump’s pick to lead CIA, pledges she won’t restart interrogation program
Gina Haspel told members of the Senate Intelligence Committee on Wednesday that she “will not restart” the CIA’s brutal interrogation program if confirmed to lead the agency, and that she would obey her moral compass, not President Trump, if she is ever instructed to carry out other questionable activities.

“My moral compass is strong,” Haspel said, as the committee’s top Democrat, Sen. Mark R. Warner (Va.), pressed her to define “your moral code.”

“I would not allow CIA to undertake activity that is immoral, even if it is technically legal. I would absolutely not permit it,” Haspel continued. “I believe CIA must undertake activities that are consistent with American values.”

Senators have asked several of Trump’s Cabinet nominees to commit to stand up to the president, and inform Congress if he were to pressure them to do anything legally or morally questionable. But the pledge takes on extra significance with Haspel, whose hearing centered around the role she played in the CIA’s interrogation program — something Trump said on the campaign trail he wouldn’t mind bringing back into practice.

Haspel told senators that she doubted the president would ever ask her to waterboard a suspect, stressing that experience had shown that the “CIA is not the right place to conduct interrogations” as it does not have the proper expertise.

Haspel took charge in 2002 of a secret CIA detention facility in Thailand where an al-Qaeda suspect was waterboarded, and in 2005 drafted a cable, ultimately issued by her boss, ordering the destruction of dozens of videotapes of the interrogation sessions. She told senators Wednesday that she had “absolutely” supported the destruction of 92 tapes, all depicting one detainee being interrogated, over concerns “about the security risk that was posed to our officers.” She noted that CIA lawyers at the time had determined there was no legal obligation to retain them, despite lawmakers and government officials having raised questions about the interrogations only days before their destruction was ordered.

She also told senators that she “fully” supports the current “standards for detainee treatment required by law,” and that in retrospect, the CIA “was not prepared to conduct a detention and interrogation program.” She also said that the CIA learned “tough lessons” during “that tumultuous time,” and that experience reinforced her “personal commitment, clearly and without reservation,” not to restart the CIA’s detention and interrogation program.

But senators warned her that a pledge to simply follow the laws against torture are “not enough.”

“No one should get credit for simply agreeing to follow the law. That’s the least we should expect from any nominee and certainly the director of the CIA,” top panel Democrat Mark R. Warner (Va.) told Haspel, setting the stage for what was expected to be a contentious hearing.

Panel Democrats and some Republicans were primed to grill the career CIA operative about her clandestine background, particularly the role she played in the agency’s controversial interrogation program that employed “enhanced” techniques such as water boarding, which many have likened to torture. They want Haspel to provide a public reckoning not only of her personal views on brutal interrogation techniques that were employed, but on the rest of her 33-year record at the agency as well — materials about which the CIA has refused to declassify.

Haspel’s hearing comes just days after the nominee offered to bow out, to avoid discussing in a public setting her role in the agency’s enhanced interrogation program, which many have likened to torture. White House officials — who tweeted support for Haspel during her Wednesday hearing — ultimately convinced her not to step aside. Haspel’s answers and overall performance Wednesday could make or break her bid for the Cabinet post.

[Undercover to under scrutiny: Gina Haspel, nominee to head CIA, to face Senate grilling]

Haspel spoke deliberately and carefully in her opening statement, calling the hearing “a new experience for me, as I spent over 30 years undercover and in the shadows,” and noting that the hearing is the first time she directly engaged with the American public in her career.

“I think you will find me to be a typical middle-class American,” Haspel told senators.

But Haspel’s CIA career has been anything but ordinary — and even she acknowledged that practically nothing is known about her publicly. Still, she offered few details about her career, save for narrating how she volunteered to work in the CIA’s counterterrorism center immediately after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

Haspel only dropped hints about her biography of “brush passes, dead drops, or in meetings dusty back allies of Third World capitals,” weaving a narrative akin to a spy novel. “I recall very well my first meeting with a foreign agent. It was on a dark, moonless night with an agent I’d never met before,” Haspel said. “When I picked him up, he passed me the intelligence, and I passed him and extra $500 for the men he led.”

The CIA has made documents about Haspel’s career available to lawmakers to read, but they have not declassified them so that they can be discussed with the public — save for an internal review that found Haspel was not at fault. Warner has called that decision “unacceptable” in a letter sent to Haspelearlier this week

[Gina Haspel, nominee to head CIA, sought to withdraw over questions about her role in agency interrogation program]

Haspel cited her support from the rank-and-file in the agency, noting that “they know that I don’t need time to learn the business of what CIA does.”

“I know CIA like the back of my hand. I know them, I know the threats we face, and I know what we need to be successful in our mission,” she said.

Haspel’s career success is not in question — both Warner and panel chairman Richard Burr (R-N.C.) praised her for her tenure and work in the CIA. But committee members are bitterly divided over whether Haspel’s career is enough to recommend her for the public, Cabinet-level position of leading the agency.

Several Republicans noted that Haspel would, if confirmed, become the first woman to run the agency. Haspel also referred to this at various points in her written remarks, speaking about how she and other “leaned forward” to put her in her current position.

[CIA sends classified Haspel files to Hill as top Democrat demands materials be made public]

Haspel pledged to cooperate with congressional oversight, and tell lawmakers that “if we can’t share aspects of our secret work with the public, we should do so with their elected representatives.” She will have the opportunity to provide more details about her tenure during a closed-door hearing following her public testimony.

Burr told reporters Tuesday that the committee could vote as soon as next week on Haspel’s nomination, and that he expected Haspel to receive a positive endorsement. But her chances of being confirmed on the Senate floor — where not all Republicans have pledged to support her — is not certain.

Two episodes in Haspel’s 33-year career with the CIA are likely to draw the most scrutiny at Wednesday’s hearing. In October 2002, she took over a secret CIA detention facility in Thailand where an al-Qaeda suspect was waterboarded. Another suspect was subjected to the same so-called enhanced interrogation technique before Haspel arrived. At the time, she was serving in a senior leadership position in the agency’s counterterrorism center.

In 2005, Haspel drafted a cable, ultimately issued by her boss, ordering the destruction of nearly 100 videotapes of the interrogation sessions. Officials familiar with the episode have said that Haspel believed her boss, Jose Rodriquez, then the director of the National Clandestine Service, would obtain approval from the CIA director and general counsel before issuing the order. But Haspel was a strong advocate within the agency for destroying the tapes, believing that were they to become public and reveal the identity of CIA interrogators, they could face reprisals from terrorists.