Renowned D.C. high school plagued by enrollment fraud, investigation finds
Roughly a third of students who claim D.C. residency at Duke Ellington School of the Arts actually live outside the city, an investigation has concluded. (Michael Robinson Chavez/The Washington Post)

More than 160 students — nearly 30 percent of the student body — at Duke Ellington School of the Arts, one of D.C.’s most desirable public schools, do not appear to live in the city and are not paying tuition required of nonresidents, an internal investigation has concluded.

The students’ cases have been forwarded to the D.C. Office of Attorney General, which handles residency fraud, according to the D.C. Office of the State Superintendent of Education.

Another 56 students have been flagged for less clear-cut residency problems and are being further scrutinized by the D.C. Office of the State Superintendent of Education, officials said. The investigation found that an additional 46 students live outside the District and are properly paying tuition.

City officials say the 164 students whose cases have been sent to the attorney general’s office will be allowed to finish the current school year, which ends in about five weeks.

The city has referred the administrators at Ellington to the D.C. inspector general, for investigation about whther they were complicit in the residency fraud.

The findings come amid intensifying distrust of D.C.’s public schools and could lead to permanent changes at one of the system’s most celebrated campuses.

Established in 1974 with a mission of providing a free, first-class arts education to children in the nation’s capital, the school has a list of celebrity alumni that includes comedian Dave Chappelle. The city recently poured more than $170 million into renovating the Ellington campus, a project that went $100 million over budget.

There were 566 students attending Ellington at the time of the most recent enrollment audit, released in February. Of those, 492 attend free, asserting they live within the city. The remaining students acknowledge living in Maryland or Virginia and have agreed to pay about $12,000 annually in tuition, as required by District law.

[Probe points to widespread residency fraud at D.C. arts school]

The recently concluded probe is focused on students whose parents claim to live in the District while actually living elsewhere, thus avoiding the fees.

In a radio interview Friday on the Kojo Nnamdi Show on WAMU-88.5(FM), Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D) suggested the problems at Ellington did not reflect broader issues in the school system. She said Ellington is “a complete outlier” because of the scope of its residency fraud.

Bowser said that non-resident students whose families were found to have enrolled them illegally would not be allowed to return to the school for the next two years. After that, if they want to re-enroll, they would have to pay tuition.

“It’s going to be corrected immediately,” she said. “We will finish out this school year and we will work with the attorney general on the disposition of those files.”

The findings threaten a large segment of the school’s families with expensive litigation and potentially substantial fines.

Many of the cases that have been referred to the attorney general included falsified leases, paycheck stubs and rental payments intended to show District residency when the students actually lived in other jurisdictions, according to a statement by the state school superintendent. Other enrollment forms listed addresses that belonged to the students' grandparents or other relatives, a violation of city law.

The 56 student files that the superintendent's office is further examining lacked proper documentation to prove residency.

"There are two main conclusions to draw from this audit," the report from the office of the superintendent said. "First, a disproportionate number of families provided what appears to be false information when enrolling students in Ellington. Second, the volume of records that were incomplete or otherwise inadequate to prove residency proves, at minimum, a significant lack of oversight and internal controls at the school."

D.C. Council member David Grosso (I-At Large), who chairs the education committee, said he was frustrated with the lack of transparency from the school system and its leaders, and this investigation is just the "latest blow to their credibility."

“Today’s report not only confirms the stunning depth of residency fraud at Duke Ellington, but also that the previous two chancellors had repeatedly lied to the committee and the council about how profound this problem is,” Grosso said.

Grosso noted that another 90 cases of potential residency fraud in other D.C. public schools have been referred to the attorney general this year.

Under District law, the city can seek triple damages against those who commit school residency fraud. Just this week, the attorney general announced residency lawsuits against two families for a combined sum of more than $800,000.

The superintendent's office said that a staff independent of Ellington will oversee residency verification and enrollment for the next academic year and that Ellington staff will be re-trained on how to prevent residency fraud.

In February, The Washington Post reported on the existence of the investigation, which is being handled by the state superintendent’s office, the city’s oversight agency for traditional public schools like Ellington and public charter schools.

Preliminary findings from the probe, which began in October, were shared in December at a meeting among officials in the state superintendent’s and attorney general’s office. At that meeting, officials learned that more than half of an initial sample of 100 student files reviewed had suspicious claims of D.C. residency.

Shortly after that, a lawyer in the state superintendent’s office told those handling the investigation in that office to “take your time” because of the risk of negative publicity during a mayoral election year, officials told The Post in February.

[Stop enrollment fraud? D.C. teachers are often the ones committing it]

On the day The Post published its story, Bowser and State Superintendent of Education Hanseul Kang, whom Bowser appointed in 2015, held a news conference confirming an investigation but declining to provide details.

Kang said she was unaware any employees in her office had been directed to delay the probe and said any such action would be “absolutely not acceptable.” She said she planned to investigate the allegation.

Recent scrutiny has revealed broader problems in the school system’s ability to ensure that taxpayer-funded schools are reserved for D.C. residents. A single full-time investigator handles residency investigations for a school system of 92,000 students.

An audit released last month by the D.C. inspector general found lax enforcement of residency rules. The state superintendent’s office, which is supposed to enforce those rules, failed to collect nonresident tuition from many families and allowed nonresident students to remain in school even after their parents defaulted on payments, the audit found.

Kang has said that her office has been working to improve its handling of student residency and is hiring two new investigators. The mayor has also set aside an additional $300,000 in the agency’s budget next year for tracking residency.

But she has also said a balance must be struck so that students who may have problems providing residency documentation because of homelessness or other unstable family situations are not excluded from the schools.