The storms were a bust, but the rainbows were a beauty: Top 20 photos


Drone view of a double rainbow in Occoquan, Va., on May 10. (John Amodea/Facebook)

The atmosphere was primed for big storms late Thursday. The National Weather Service posted the season’s first severe thunderstorm watch, and vigorous storms fired off across the Mid-Atlantic. Except within a county radius of Washington.

Instead, as if we were protected by force shield, storms fizzled as they neared the Capital Beltway or danced around it.



Reports of damaging winds and hail logged by the National Weather Service on May 10.

But weaker showers did manage to skirt through the region as the sun lowered in the sky during the evening. The result? Magnificent rainbows.

[Photos: Chasing rainbows at Manassas National Battlefield Park]

We received dozens of beautiful single- and double-rainbow photos from across the region. Here are my top 20 favorites (including the Occoquan photo above). Thanks to all of you who shared pics!



The National Building Museum in Washington under a double rainbow, May 10. (Jon Fremont)

Brb off to Rosslyn to find the gold @capitalweather pic.twitter.com/eNAyoMN5nz — Alex Weller (@alexbweller) May 10, 2018

When the sun is out out and it begins to rain, I often race up to the rooftop with my camera in tow to see if there's a rainbow. I was lucky to see a double rainbow tonight. I guess it's another odd obsession of mine but there are worse habits.@capitalweather #panorama pic.twitter.com/ZHcOyXeICO — Bill McKenna (@WM_BBC) May 11, 2018

in case you need some refracted light in your life pic.twitter.com/GeRgeQO77e — Hannah (@ruthyoest) May 10, 2018

The pot of gold appears to be on the roof of the @washingtonpost. pic.twitter.com/xzgnuV89uF — Aaron Landry (@s4xton) May 10, 2018

But it left a beautiful rainbow pic.twitter.com/Xz2ycsPLqw — Paul Kite (@PaulKite4) May 11, 2018

Was not bad at all! Managed to snag this! pic.twitter.com/hdlUpbmwh1 — beccagrawl (@beccagrawl) May 10, 2018