D.C. Council member optimistic about extended Metro service for Caps games


(Toni L. Sandys/The Washington Post)

Capitals fans without tickets for the Eastern Conference finals will still have the opportunity to rock the red amid a playoff atmosphere if D.C. Council member and Metro board chairman Jack Evans gets his wish. Evans also expressed optimism Friday that fans with tickets won’t have to worry (as much) about leaving a game early to catch the last Metro train.

During Thursday’s Metro board meeting, Evans mentioned that he was looking into the possibility of closing streets around Capital One Arena during Capitals home games this series so fans could gather and watch the action on a big screen, something that has become popular in several NHL cities in recent years.

“Wouldn’t that be great if we had 10,000 people sitting on the museum steps there, across from [Capital One Arena] watching the game?” Evans said. “People who can’t necessarily afford to go into the arena and pay could be outside watching it, or even on game night in Tampa Bay, to use the arena for people to come and watch the game.”

On Thursday, Evans put the chances of clearing all of the logistical and bureaucratic hurdles required to organize an outdoor viewing party in time for Tuesday’s Game 3 at Capital One Arena at about 50-50. On Friday, he told The Post the chances of the first such event coming together are now closer to 70 percent. Evans said the most likely plan would involve closing G Street between 7th and 8th streets NW. The game would be projected — with sound — on a screen near the McDonald’s at the intersection of 7th and G streets.

With puck drop for Games 3 and 4 of the Eastern Conference finals at Capital One Arena on Tuesday and Thursday, respectively, set for 8 p.m., Metro’s 11:30 p.m. closing time on those nights could present a problem for fans if the game goes to overtime. Evans said Friday he was in discussions with a couple of companies who are considering paying the $100,000 fee to keep Metro open an additional hour after each playoff home game.

“We’re working toward getting an extra hour,” Evans said. “It’s looking good.”

The Capitals and Wizards have both welcomed fans to watch road playoff games on the video board inside Capital One Arena before. The Capitals did not immediately respond to a request for comment about whether that’s a possibility for this series.

The Capitals and the Rosslyn Business Improvement District will co-host an outdoor viewing party for Friday’s Game 1 in Tampa at Gateway Park in Arlington. The game will be aired on a 40-foot projection screen and the free event will feature appearances by Capitals mascot Slap shot and the Red Rockers. Fans are welcome to bring food and nonalcoholic drinks. In D.C., The Bullpen on Half Street outside of Nationals Park will air every game of the Eastern Conference finals on a big screen with sound.

Read more on the Capitals:

‘We are all about the Rangers South’: Capitals face familiar playoff foes in Tampa

Capitals’ Tom Wilson tries to adapt his tactics after a suspension he still disputes

The Capitals could exploit the Lightning’s biggest statistical weakness

There’s a cursed Capitals puck buried beneath the Penguins’ arena. (Its powers are suspect.)

The Capitals finally beat the Penguins. They don’t want to stop there.

Do the Capitals look like a true Stanley Cup contender? (No.)