Mint Julep & Other Southern Favorites
Makes about 9

My friend and colleague Dr. Marcie Cohen Ferris is a professor in the Department of American

Studies at the University of North Carolina. Her research and teaching interests include Southern

history and culture--particularly the foodways and material culture of the American South and the history of the Jewish South. In her excellent book The Edible South she writes, "In contemporary

worlds of popular and consumer culture, Southern food has become untethered from the complex

historical narrative responsible for this cuisine. Think of buckets of Southern fried chicken and cathead

biscuits like culinary spacecraft set adrift from the mother ship of southern history, culture,

and experience." I wholeheartedly agree. Many people outside the South think all Southern food is

unhealthy and/or fried. The term cathead biscuit is an authentic one, indicating that it's a biscuit as large as a cat's head, and a phrase my grandfather once used. This extra-large biscuit would not have been the norm on the everyday table, but it has become the standard size for fast-food biscuits. Ferris continues, "Fried

chicken, biscuits, and sweet tea--the icons of Southern food--have become so 'super-sized,' enriched,

sweetened, and filled with butter that they are almost unrecognizable to native Southerners."

This cathead biscuit is the real deal.

There are a few secrets to a tender biscuit: First, flours vary in their protein levels. Reach for a

low-protein flour for light-as-air biscuits. After that, you want cold butter--when the cold butter is

transferred to the hot oven it melts and produces steam, which helps produce flaky biscuits. Lastly,

avoid overworking the dough, which activates the gluten and will produce a tough, heavy biscuit. The

perfect biscuit should be golden brown and slightly crisp on

the outside, with a light, airy interior.

4 cups White Lily or other Southern all-purpose flour, or cake flour (not self-rising), plus more for rolling out

2 tablespoons baking powder

2 teaspoons fine sea salt

8 tablespoons (½ cup) cold unsalted butter,

cut into cubes and chilled

2 cups buttermilk

1. Heat the oven to 500°F. Line a baking sheet with a silicone baking mat. (You can also bake the biscuits on

an ungreased baking sheet.)

2. In a bowl, combine the flour, baking powder, and salt. Using a pastry

blender or two knives, cut the butter into the flour mixture until it resembles coarse meal. Pour in the buttermilk and mix until just barely combined. It will be a shaggy mass. (Alternatively, you can mix the dough in a food processor: Pulse to combine the flour, baking powder, and salt.

3. Add the butter and pulse until it resembles coarse meal. Pour in the buttermilk through the feed tube and

pulse until just barely combined. It will be a shaggy mass.)

4. Turn the shaggy mass out onto a lightly floured surface. Knead lightly, using the heel of your hand to

compress and push the dough away from you, then fold it back over itself. Give the dough a small turn

and repeat four or five times. (It's not yeast bread; you want to just barely activate the gluten, not overwork it.)