Trump's Approval Rises as Study Shows 91% Negative Coverage; 'The Five' Sound Off
North Korea Releases 3 Americans: Hegseth Says Trump's 'Strength Approach' Is Forcing Change

Boothe: Trump 'Literally' Making History on North Korea While Media Focuses on Stormy, Russia

President Trump's approval ratings have risen despite a study showing media coverage of his administration has been 91 percent negative this year.

According to an average of polls by RealClearPolitics, Trump's approval rating stands at 43 percent, up six points from December.

The uptick has come despite overwhelmingly negative coverage on the broadcast evening news from Jan. 1 through April 30, according to the Media Research Center.

President Trump called the media "corrupt" on Wednesday, asking whether journalists' credentials should be taken away.

The Fake News is working overtime. Just reported that, despite the tremendous success we are having with the economy & all things else, 91% of the Network News about me is negative (Fake). Why do we work so hard in working with the media when it is corrupt? Take away credentials? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 9, 2018

On "The Five," Greg Gutfeld said the mainstream media coverage - on Stormy Daniels, for instance - has become "over-the-top" and "hysterical."

Dana Perino said the president's rising approval ratings are based on "reality and results," explaining the opinions she heard from people on a recent trip to Nashville.

"No one is talking about Washington, D.C.," she said, noting that voters are generally pleased with the economy.

Juan Williams added that most Americans do not see a "crisis" in the country, but polls show a majority want Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation to finish.

Kimberly Guilfoyle said the Russia probe is "political," citing a CBS News poll in which a majority stated that opinion.

Watch the discussion above.

'Unbelievably Harrowing': Guilfoyle Reveals 5th Accuser of NY Dem Schneiderman

'Beyond the Pale': 'Outnumbered' Takes on April Ryan & Critics of Melania Trump

'Thanks for Playing, Don': Mitch McConnell's Campaign Taunts Blankenship After WV Primary Loss