Nat'l Security Expert: N. Korea Prisoner Release 'Historic,' Trump Must Be Considered for Nobel
North Korea Releases 3 Americans: Hegseth Says Trump's 'Strength Approach' Is Forcing Change

North Korea’s release of three Americans it has been holding as prisoners is a "historic" development, according to national security expert Harry Kazianis.

North Korea on Wednesday released Kim Dong Chul, Tony Kim and Kim Hak Song, handing them over to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.

President Trump applauded the development and said he will personally greet the men at Andrews Air Force Base at 2:00 a.m. ET Thursday.

I am pleased to inform you that Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is in the air and on his way back from North Korea with the 3 wonderful gentlemen that everyone is looking so forward to meeting. They seem to be in good health. Also, good meeting with Kim Jong Un. Date & Place set. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 9, 2018

Secretary Pompeo and his “guests” will be landing at Andrews Air Force Base at 2:00 A.M. in the morning. I will be there to greet them. Very exciting! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 9, 2018

On "Fox & Friends," Kazianis, director of defense studies at the Center for the National Interest, said this is clear evidence that Trump's "maximum pressure campaign" is working.

He explained that Trump has taken an aggressive posture toward the regime of dictator Kim Jong Un, and crippling international economic sanctions have left North Korea on the brink of bankruptcy.

He said the regime realized that releasing the prisoners was the right move, and it would buy them substantial international goodwill.

Kazianis said Trump's "relentless" pressure has led to a change in behavior not just from North Korea, but also China, which has shown greater willingness to negotiate with the U.S. on trade and to implement United Nations security council resolutions against North Korea.

He noted that Trump is also planning a face-to-face meeting with Kim, with the goal of the complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.

"I think because of all this, you have to consider Trump for the Nobel Peace Prize. Remember, back in December we were talking about nuclear war on this channel. We're not talking about that anymore."

'So Misguided': Obama Criticizes Trump Decision to Exit Iran Nuclear Deal

Bolton: Pulling Out of Iran Deal 'Got Back to Real Objective' of Stopping Iran's Nuclear Ambitions

Retired Delta Force General: Trump Ditching Iran Deal a 'Sterling Example of Int'l Leadership'