'This Is Literally Orwellian': Tucker Battles RI Dem on Party Fundraising off Mueller Probe
'Unbelievably Harrowing': Kimberly Guilfoyle Says NY Dem Schneiderman Allegedly Abused Another Woman

Vet Wounded by Iranian IED Salutes Trump for Pulling Out of Iran Deal

Tucker Carlson battled a Rhode Island congressman over the campaign arm of his caucus sending a fundraising email playing off the Robert Mueller probe into President Donald Trump.

Rep. David Cicilline, a Democrat from Providence, said the Mueller probe is a "serious investigation" and that a "majority of Americans have confidence" in Mueller.

Tucker Carlson said the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) sent an email to supporters claiming that if they reached one million signatures on a petition, it would compel Trump to testify before Mueller's attorneys.

Cicilline said he does not speak for the DCCC but reiterated that the Mueller probe should run its course.

Carlson pointed out that no American has been charged with collusion, the initial prosecutorial intent of the probe.

He said it was "dishonest" for Cicilline to summarily cite the indictment of several Russian nationals when describing the accomplishments of the investigation.

Cicilline said Democrats are focused on economic issues important to American families.

Cicilline asked Carlson to speak with guests more about the economy and less about the Mueller probe.

"This is literally Orwellian," Carlson later responded, saying that by Democrats like Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) trumpeting the Mueller probe it works counter to the goal of focusing on economic issues.

Cicilline suggested again that Carlson hold a roundtable debate on key issues with himself, Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.) and Rep. Cheri Bustos (D-Ill.), who he said chaired a special Democratic committee focused on economics.

"The Democrats are focused like a laser on economic issues," he said.

Retired Delta Force General: Trump Ditching Iran Deal a 'Sterling Example of Int'l Leadership'

'So Misguided': Obama Criticizes Trump Decision to Exit Iran Nuclear Deal