Pirro Blasts 'Pompous, Egotistical, Patronizing Liar' Jim Comey and 'Self-Absorbed' Memoir
Pence to Russia: 'You're On the Wrong Side of History'

'Racist & Rapist': Vandals Deface UVA's Thomas Jefferson Statue on Founder's 275th Birthday

In her Opening Statement, Judge Jeanine Pirro ripped former FBI Director James Comey, calling his new memoir "A Higher Loyalty" all about a "loyalty to himself."

"Why would you believe a guy with a history replete with lies, dishonesty and contradictions?" Pirro asked.

Pirro said that Comey was blustering when he repeatedly praised former President Barack Obama, and at one point wrote that he "could see and evaluate a variety of angles on complicated issues."

"Like when [Obama] bragged about traveling to all '57' states?" Pirro asked.

She called his book as "unprofessional and illegitimate as a Stormy Daniels highlight reel."

James Comey, you are a pompous, egotistical, patronizing, condescending, holier-than-thou political operative trying to redeem your reputation...Your book is about a higher loyalty to none other than you. #OpeningStatement pic.twitter.com/Quq5xatGkg — Jeanine Pirro (@JudgeJeanine) April 15, 2018

Pirro said Comey wrote at length about Trump as a person, noting the size of his hands, considering whether or not he regularly wears tanning goggles and whether his famous hair is real.

She remarked that Comey himself was the subject of contemplation at the FBI, with agents reportedly referring to him as Cardinal Comey.

Pirro said it was unbecoming of his former office to try to consider whether First Lady Melania Trump would believe President Donald Trump was involved in a graphic sex act with prostitutes in Russia, as claimed in an unverified dossier.

.@JudgeJeanine: "Now why would you believe a guy with a history replete with lies, dishonesty and contradictions? We'll find out Tuesday when disgraced former FBI Director James @Comey's book, 'A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies and Leadership' hits the stands." pic.twitter.com/cOcApj6wWj — Fox News (@FoxNews) April 15, 2018

She remarked that it was because "Patrice [Comey] was never presented with a fake dossier by the director of the FBI, who parenthetically knew it wasn't true."

Pirro ripped Comey for excusing his actions late in the 2016 election as trying to prevent a "tainted" Hillary Clinton presidency.

"Everyone in law enforcement knows you reopened the Hillary Clinton case because the NYPD and the New York [FBI] field office were going to 'out' you for protecting her," Pirro said.

Watch more above.

Dershowitz Blasts 'Shameful' Comey for 'Gossipy Revenge' Book

Oliver North: Syria Strike Sends 'Important Message' to 'Enablers' Iran, Russia