Steyn on Media's Stormy Obsession: 'The Only Crime Here Is Blackmail'
Pavlich: Stormy Daniels Was Shown 'In the Light of a Leftist' on SNL

Giuliani: Stormy Daniels and Attorney Are 'Stick-Up Artists' Who Targeted Trump

Author and columnist Mark Steyn joined Tucker Carlson to discuss what media's apparent obsession with adult film star Stormy Daniel and her claims against President Trump.

"The only crime that's going on here is blackmail," Steyn said. "The only people who are committing any crime here are the two shakedown artists, which is Stormy and her lawyer."

.@MarkSteynOnline: "The only people who are committing any crime here are the two shake-down artists, which is Stormy [Daniels] and her lawyer." #Tucker pic.twitter.com/1pLXfjpq9C — Fox News (@FoxNews) May 8, 2018

Steyn added that the whole Stormy Daniels circus is pointless since the American people elected Trump because of the issues he raised during the campaign, not his personal life or moral standing.

"You're not actually voting for Trump because he's the perfect gentleman. You're voting for Trump because everything else you've voted for in the last 20 years has failed you."

"That is absolutely right," Carlson responded, vowing to keep covering issues Americans care about.

Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, was paid $130,000 by President Trump's longtime attorney Michael Cohen in 2016 to buy her silence about an alleged 2006 sexual encounter with Trump.

Trump has denied the affair and accused Clifford of lying.

Trump derided the persistent headlines about Clifford's claims on Friday, calling it "crap" and arguing the media is ignoring positive things happening in the country.

Last week, Trump's new attorney Rudy Giuliani made headlines by saying Trump knew about the payment to Clifford. He later clarified to say Trump knew about the payment, but did not know what it was for.

Watch the segment above.

Trump: Media Only Wants to Talk About Russia 'Witch Hunt,' Stormy Daniels 'Crap'

Stormy Daniels Pressed on Whether Trump Affair Allegations Are a 'Publicity Stunt'

Judge Nap: Giuliani's Claim That Trump Didn't Know About Stormy Daniels Payment Is 'Unworthy of Belief'