Ben Shapiro Responds to Allegations He Incited Quebec Mosque Shooting
Turley: Giuliani-Hannity Interview 'Caused Some Damage' for Trump

Conservative commentator Ben Shapiro fired back after some on the left alleged that he incited the Quebec mosque shooter.

In January 2017, Alexandre Bissonnette opened fire on a Quebec City mosque, killing six people and injuring 19 others.

As part of the evidence against Bissonnette, prosecutors revealed a list of Twitter feeds that Bissonnette visited in the weeks before the attack, and Shapiro's feed was the one he most frequently visited.

Evidence presented at Alexandre Bissonnette's sentencing hearing this morning includes a list of some of the Twitter accounts he was checking in the month before he killed six men at a Quebec City mosque. pic.twitter.com/Xdew4HbjkQ — Andy Riga, Montreal (@andyriga) April 16, 2018

Now, some on the left have alleged that Shapiro -- and others on the right -- influenced Bissonnette by speaking out against radical Islam and Islamic terror.

"I have 1.4 million Twitter followers, so I guess the idea from the left is that if somebody views enough of my tweets they're inevitably going to become a terrorist. Weird that I don't have a spate of enormous terrorism across the country thanks to my Twitter following," Shapiro said on "The Ingraham Angle."

He pointed out that when a Bernie Sanders supporter opened fire on a congressional baseball practice in June 2017, nobody on the right accused Sanders of incitement.

Laura Ingraham said the goal is to intimidate Shapiro and other conservatives from speaking out.

"[They] are going to brand you a hater, [they're] going to try to stop your livelihood, stop you from making money, stop you from getting speeches," Ingraham said. "That's what this is about."

Shapiro -- who has unequivocally denounced Bissonnette -- said this is dangerous trend that is leading to an attempt by people on the far-left to shut down dissenting points of view.

"All of this is nonsense generated by the left specifically in order to shut down free speech. That's their goal."

Cavuto to Trump: 'How Can You Drain the Swamp if You Keep Muddying the Waters?'

Shep: Why Did Giuliani Raise Prospect of Mueller Investigating Ivanka Trump?

Tomi Lahren to Conservatives, Trump Supporters: 'Don't Attach Yourself to Kanye'