'Make Campus Great Again' Speaker: More and More Liberal Students Showing Up to Hear Conservative Views
Study: Nearly 40 Percent of Top Liberal Arts Colleges Have No GOP Professors

Student Activists Fight to Shut Down ROTC Program at NYC College

A conservative speaker says she's seen a growing number of left-leaning college students attending her “Make Campus Great Again” events.

In a new op-ed, Lauren Cooley, Red Alert Politics editor for the Washington Examiner, said that leftist students don't often encounter varying viewpoints on campus and they are "starving for diverse ideas."

Cooley joined Bill Hemmer on "America's Newsroom" and explained that the crux of her “Make Campus Great Again” speech is to encourage young conservatives to be active on campus and to promote free speech.

Although conservative students are her target audience, in recent months she's seen more and more liberal students show up to hear what she has to say.

"They're seeking out other ideological viewpoints. And they have to come to me, a 25-year-old with a 'Make Campus Great Again' speaking tour, in order to hear conservative thoughts on campus," Cooley said.

She said there is certainly still a large number of "emotional, safe space-loving, campus snowflakes," but she's meeting many students who want to engage in civil discussion and be exposed to different viewpoints.

"There are students who are bright and smart. And just because they're left-leaning doesn't mean they don't support free speech," Cooley said.

"And those students are being alienated by the extreme leftists on campus and are becoming allies of conservative students on campus, just because they're OK with plural opinions and ideas and exploring new things."

Watch the interview above.

RPT: Liberal Student Orgs Get 20x More Funding Than Conservative Groups at UW

Fordham College Republicans Kicked Out of Campus Coffee Shop Because of MAGA Hats

'Chilling Political Correctness': Gutfeld on Professor Facing Discipline Over 'Corny' Joke in Elevator